modules/doc/content/help/inl/hpc_remote.md, before:

# Remote Access Primer

WIP

## Native Shell/Tunneling Access (Optional: for advanced users)

The following instructions are for advanced users wishing to use their native terminal to access
[!ac](INL) [!ac](HPC) resources while operating from a machine outside of [!ac](INL). As well as for
those wishing not to use [inl/hpc_ondemand.md].

### SSH Config id=ssh-config

Edit the `~/.ssh/config` file on your local machine to include the commands for proxy calls to
internal HPC sites.

```bash
ServerAliveInterval 240

Host *
  ControlMaster auto
  ControlPath ~/.ssh/master-%r@%h:%p

## HPC Entry Point
Host hpclogin hpclogin.inl.gov
  Hostname hpclogin.inl.gov
  DynamicForward 5555

## Forwarding
Host sawtooth1 sawtooth2 lemhi1 lemhi2 rod hoodoo1 viz1
  ProxyJump hpclogin
```

!alert note title=What if my local and remote users names differ?
If your remote username is different from your local username you will need to add `User` directives
in the appropriate places. See the instructions [here](hpc_remote_different_user.md).

!alert! note title=What if the `ProxyJump` directive fails?
If your SSH client version is from before 2017. The `ProxyJump` command will not be
recognized. Please upgrade your client, if possible. Otherwise, replace
the ProxyJump directive with the following line:

```bash
ProxyCommand ssh -q -x hpclogin.inl.gov -W %h:%p
```
!alert-end!


### SSH Tunnel

Create a tunnel into the HPC environment and leave it running while you require access to HPC
resources not available/or those not wishing to use HPC OnDemand. If you close this window, you will
loose your connection to these resources.

```bash
ssh <your hpc user id>@hpclogin
```

!alert note title=Both the RSA PIN and Token are required.
Connecting in this method requires an RSA PIN + Token. You should not need a fully-qualified
domain name in your command above because of the "Host" setting in your SSH config file.

### SOCKS Proxy id=socks-proxy

To access common HPC resources (NCRC Application Documentation, Discourse, etc) within a web browser, traffic can either be routed through a SOCKS proxy, or you can authenticate . This can be achieved by using a PAC (Proxy-Auto Configuration) file:

!listing moose/scripts/hpc_proxy.pac

Add the proxy configuration to your browser via the following url:

```
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/idaholab/moose/master/scripts/hpc_proxy.pac
```

Documentation is available for using [Firefox](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/connection-settings-firefox). Add the URL above within the "Automatic proxy configuration URL" box. We do not recommend utilizing Google Chrome with this functionality because it requires setting a system-wide proxy configuration.

Commit message:

Looking good...
Templated the Level 1 and 4 instructions to personalize the users
experience, tailored to the Application they wish to use.

Trimmed down the landing page. We want to 'herd' users to the
application page as much as possible. Where each app is listed with
each level of access, etc.

- NCRC Distributed Applications
- HPC OnDemand
- Remote Access Primer

modules/doc/content/help/inl/hpc_remote.md, after:

# Remote Access Primer

!alert note title=Optional Instructions below
The following sections are for advanced users, comfortable and familiar with their computer and
their terminal. These instructions are entirely avoidable by using [inl/hpc_ondemand.md] web based
services.

The following instructions are for those wishing to use their native local machine's
terminal to access [!ac](INL) [!ac](HPC) resources while operating from a machine outside of
[!ac](INL). As well as for those wishing not to use [inl/hpc_ondemand.md].

### SSH Config id=ssh-config

Edit the `~/.ssh/config` file on your local machine to include the commands for proxy calls to
internal HPC sites.

```bash
ServerAliveInterval 240

Host *
  ControlMaster auto
  ControlPath ~/.ssh/master-%r@%h:%p

## HPC Entry Point
Host hpclogin hpclogin.inl.gov
  Hostname hpclogin.inl.gov
  DynamicForward 5555

## Forwarding
Host sawtooth1 sawtooth2 lemhi1 lemhi2 rod hoodoo1 viz1
  ProxyJump hpclogin
```

!alert note title=What if my local and remote users names differ?
If your remote username is different from your local username you will need to add `User` directives
in the appropriate places. See the instructions [here](hpc_remote_different_user.md).

!alert! note title=What if the `ProxyJump` directive fails?
If your SSH client version is from before 2017. The `ProxyJump` command will not be
recognized. Please upgrade your client, if possible. Otherwise, replace
the ProxyJump directive with the following line:

```bash
ProxyCommand ssh -q -x hpclogin.inl.gov -W %h:%p
```
!alert-end!


### SSH Tunnel

Create a tunnel into the HPC environment and leave it running while you require access to HPC
resources not available/or those not wishing to use HPC OnDemand. If you close this window, you will
loose your connection to these resources.

```bash
ssh <your hpc user id>@hpclogin
```

!alert note title=Both the RSA PIN and Token are required.
Connecting in this method requires an RSA PIN + Token. You should not need a fully-qualified
domain name in your command above because of the "Host" setting in your SSH config file.

### SOCKS Proxy id=socks-proxy

To access common HPC resources (NCRC Application Documentation, Discourse, etc) within a web browser, traffic can either be routed through a SOCKS proxy, or you can authenticate . This can be achieved by using a PAC (Proxy-Auto Configuration) file:

!listing moose/scripts/hpc_proxy.pac

Add the proxy configuration to your browser via the following url:

```
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/idaholab/moose/master/scripts/hpc_proxy.pac
```

Documentation is available for using [Firefox](https://support.mozilla.org/en-US/kb/connection-settings-firefox). Add the URL above within the "Automatic proxy configuration URL" box. We do not recommend utilizing Google Chrome with this functionality because it requires setting a system-wide proxy configuration.
