# Numbered Floats

Various extensions within MooseDocs include the ability to create numbered "floats", where a
float is defined as a grouping of similar items. By default, there are three basic groups
that exist: "Figures", "Tables", and "Listings". However, these groups can be changed arbitrarily
directly from the markdown.

## Commands

Currently, there are three commands with support float creation.

* `!listings` <br>
The [listings](extensions/listings.md) extension provides a mechanism for creating code listings in similar
style as the [LaTeX listings](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/LaTeX/Source_Code_Listings) package. By
default floats generated by this command are, as the name suggested, numbered with a "Listing"
prefix.

* `!media` <br>
The [media](extensions/media.md) extensionq provides a robust solution for include images, movies, and carousels using the `!media` command. By default floats generated with this command are numbered
with a "Figure" prefix.

* `!table` <br>
The [table](extensions/tables.md) extension provides a command for adding captions to the traditional
markdown table syntax. Floats generated with this command, by default, are numbered with a
"Table" prefix.


## Media ("Figures")

!media http://lorempixel.com/200/200/nature/ id=nature caption=A random nature image. style=width:200px;float:right;margin-left:20px

To enable the numbering of a float, simply supply the "id" setting as shown below, which is
the markdown used to produce \ref{nature}. Additionally, the "caption" setting should also be utilized, although it is not required.

```
!media http://lorempixel.com/200/200/nature/ id=nature caption=A random nature image. style=width:200px;float:right;margin-left:20px
```

This figure can then be reference anywhere in the markdown file using a LaTeX style reference command. For, example the markdown `\ref{nature}` produces the following link and automatically adds the "Figure" prefix: \ref{nature}. The `\ref` command is defined by the ["refs"](extensions/refs.md) extension.

!media http://lorempixel.com/200/200/sports/ id=sports caption=A random sports image. style=width:200px;float:right;margin-left:20px

!media http://lorempixel.com/200/200/food/ caption=A random food image. style=width:200px;float:right;margin-left:20px

Adding new figures continues the numbering, but only if the "id" settings is applied. For example,
the random food image omits the "id", thus it is not numbered and cannot be referenced, while the
"sports" image is available: \ref{sports}.

!!!note
    The `\ref` commands require the [refs](extensions/refs.md) extension be loaded.

!media http://lorempixel.com/200/200/cats/ id=cat counter=cats RULE caption=A random cat image. style=width:200px;float:right;margin-left:20px

As mentioned, it is possible to change the float prefix and numbering from within the markdown alone. This is accomplished using the "counter" setting, as shown below.

```
!media http://lorempixel.com/200/200/cats/ id=cat counter=cats RULE caption=A random cat image. style=width:200px;float:right;margin-left:20px
```

The string supplied is converted to a ["title"](https://docs.python.org/2/library/stdtypes.html#str.title) by capitalizing the first
letter of each word, regardless of the case provided. This was done to avoid case-sensitivity
mistakes.

!media http://lorempixel.com/800/300/cats/ id=big_cat counter=cats rule caption=A big random cat image. style=width:800px;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto

The numbering is preserved based on this counter. Thus, as in \ref{sports2}, the "Figure" prefix
will continue to increment in the proper order by not including the cat images.

!media http://lorempixel.com/800/300/sports/ id=sports2 caption=A big random sports image. style=width:800px;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto

## Tables
The [tables](extensions/tables.md) extension adds the ability to place captions about traditional
markdown tables. This command also works with the float numbering, simply supply the "id" setting
and optionally the "caption" setting as detailed in the previous section.

!table id=testing caption=This is an example table with a caption.
| 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 |
|---|---|---|---|----|
| 2 | 4 | 6 | 8 | 10 |

Similar to media items, tables can be referenced: Table \ref{testing}.

## Listings
The [listings](extensions/listings.md) extension adds the ability to create code listings from
files, snippets, or inline. Again, the "float" numbering works with all the versions of the
`!listings` command. For example, \ref{diffusion} shows a complete C file, \ref{kernels}
provides an input file block, and \ref{inline} is an inline fenced code block.

!listing framework/src/kernels/Diffusion.C id=diffusion caption=Diffusion Kernel in a scrolling code listing.

!listing test/tests/kernels/simple_diffusion/simple_diffusion.i id=kernels caption=The `Kernels` block. block=Kernels

!listing id=inline caption=An inline code snippet showing the markdown for producing a scrolling code block as in \ref{diffusion}.
```
!listing framework/src/kernels/Diffusion.C id=diffusion caption=Diffusion Kernel in a scrolling code listing.
```
