# MOOSE Newsletter (December 2018)

## MOOSEDocs

Last month there were significant changes to the MOOSEDocs python API
(see [#12528](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/pull/12528)). Hopefully, the only thing you will
notice is improved performance, in particular the live reload should be more useful. It will now
pick up pages that are created after it started as well as update pages that use the `!include`
command automatically when the included page is modified.

The MOOSEDocs executable (`moosedocs.py`) now has a `--fast` option, this option disables the
slowest extensions (`appsyntax` and `navigation`) to allow for quicker builds of the complete
website. It is also possible to disable any extension with the `--disable` option, use `--help` for
more information.

If you are writing documentation for MOOSE itself, you will notice that the content location
was changed for much of the documentation. Most of the content for the MOOSE framework level
documentation is located in `modules/doc/content`. This change was made to limit the documentation
with in the framework directory to the syntax and source pages only. This minimizes the amount of
content that is included when applications include the framework documentation and also allows for
framework level documentation to reference module content.

The capabilities of MOOSEDocs will continue to expand, in the coming months the support for LaTeX
and PDF output will be the focus.

## Website Examples

There are several MOOSE usage examples that have been added to the website
(https://mooseframework.org/examples). The first several of these examples have been extensively
improved and filled out.  New users of MOOSE can use these examples as a tutorial of sorts to
learn the basics of solving problems with MOOSE.  Work will continue to improve website
documentation for new users.

## Tagging System

The tagging system is enabled for DG, Scalar, Interface, AD, Nodal, IntegratedBCs, and Dirac kernels.
The capability has been used for an eigenvalue solver involving nodal kernels.
