# MOOSE Newsletter (October 2018)

## MOOSEDocs

We are continuing to improve documentation for MOOSE, and our new
website recently went live.  All MOOSE Pull Requests which change or
add tests now require additional language which details the tests'
purpose, the GitHub issue(s) associated with the test, and any relevant
design/documentation for the feature being tested.  This additional
documentation serves two purposes. First, it is useful when trying to
understand what a test does, and second, it is also being used as
software life-cycle documentation.

There is also ongoing work being done to convert "MOOSEDown" into LaTeX, and there will be
more announcements on this task in the coming weeks and months.

## ParsedFunction Improvement

The `ParsedFunction` can now take another function as a parameter - similarly to the way it can take
a scalar value or a `Postprocessor` value. An example syntax follows:

```
[./a_fn]
  type = ParsedFunction
  value = sin(x)
[../]
[./parsed_fn]
  type = ParsedFunction
  value = '4*sqrt(a)'
  vars = 'a'
  vals = 'a_fn'
[../]
```

Obtaining the values from a nested function honors the time and space position of the evaluating
function, i.e. in our example `a_fn` will be evaluated at the same time and space position as
`parsed_fn` function.

## App Object/Action Registration Changes

Previously, a MOOSE-based application's main App class contained several registration methods,
e.g. `registerObjects()`, `associateSyntax()`, `registerExecFlags()`, etc., along with a special `extern "C"`
function paired with each one.  We are moving away from these functions in favor of a more
consolidated, simple approach.  Applications should now perform *all* registration (objects,
syntax, actions, exec flags) and special setup inside a static `registerAll()` member function:

```
static void registerAll(Factory & f, ActionFactory & af, Syntax & s);
```

Applications will no longer be expected to register MOOSE framework objects directly - nor perform
any registration for transitive dependencies.  If your `FooApp` application depends on the
`heat_conduction` module and `BarApp`, then your `registerAll()` function should look something like this:

```
void
FooApp::registerAll(Factory & f, ActionFactory & af, Syntax & s)
{
  Registry::registerObjectsTo(f, {"FooApp"});
  Registry::registerActionsTo(af, {"FooApp"});

  ModulesApp::registerAll(f, af, s);
  BarApp::registerAll(f, af, s);
}

extern "C" void
FooApp__registerAll(Factory & f, ActionFactory & af, Syntax & s)
{
  FooApp::registerAll(f, af, s);
}
```

All registration-related code in your App's constructor should be removed in favor of a single
call: `registerAll(_factory, _action_factory, _syntax);`.  Each application is only responsible to
call `registerAll()` for its *direct* dependencies.  If `BarApp` depends on the `fluid_properties` module
or `BazApp` - then those registrations should occur automatically from calls within
`BarApp::registerAll()` (no need for you to do that in `FooApp`).

Please add the `registerAll()` function to all of your applications/modules.  If your
application/module has no dependent applications, then you can just remove/delete
the old functions (including the `FooApp__register[Bla]` functions) in favor of the new `registerAll()`.
If your application/module does have downstream dependencies, then you will need to keep the old
functions (please add deprecation warnings via the `mooseDeprecated` macro) until the downstream
dependencies have been updated.  Deprecation messages/warnings have been added to the old
`registerObjects()`, etc. functions in MOOSE and its modules.

!alert note
The `registerApps()` and `FooApp__registerApps()` functions are still required, and should remain unchanged.

If your application has a test app (e.g. FooTestApp) then this is the new convention:


```
...

FooTestApp::FooTestApp(const InputParameters & parameters) : MooseApp(parameters)
{
  FooTestApp::registerAll(
      _factory, _action_factory, _syntax, getParam<bool>("allow_test_objects"));
}

void
FooTestApp::registerAll(Factory & f, ActionFactory & af, Syntax & s, bool use_test_objs)
{
  FooApp::registerAll(f, af, s);
  if (use_test_objs)
  {
    Registry::registerObjectsTo(f, {"FooTestApp"});
    Registry::registerActionsTo(af, {"FooTestApp"});

    // ... register test action syntax, etc.
  }
}

...
```

## Matrix assembly improvement

In MOOSE, a `CouplingMatrix` object is used to indicate which variables
are coupled to one another.  Checking all possible (i,j) variable
pairs for coupling works well when the number of variables is small,
but the setup time scales like O(N^2) in the number of variables, N.
We have addressed this issue by using a different CouplingMatrix API
which allows us to cache the coupled variable pairs in O(1) time, and
then loop over only those variable pairs when assembling the global
matrix.


## SmoothMesh MeshModifier

The [`SmoothMesh MeshModifier`](http://www.mooseframework.org/source/meshmodifiers/SmoothMesh.html) can
now be used to perform a user-defined number of "Laplace" mesh
smoothing iterations on any mesh. Roughly speaking, the Laplace
smoothing algorithm works by moving each node to the element-weighted
centroid of the neighboring nodes. Multiple iterations tend to
"converge" to a final configuration on convex domains, but may run
into issues on non-convex domains.  The smoothing operations can be
subdomain-restricted, and in general boundary nodes are not moved. In
the future, we plan to extend this capability to include other types
of mesh smoothing algorithms.


## ElementQualityAux AuxKernel

The [`ElementQualityAux` AuxKernel](http://www.mooseframework.org/source/auxkernels/ElementQualityAux.html)
was added. This AuxKernel calls the Elem::quality() function and
builds an elemental AuxVariable field which can be used for
visualization purposes. There are a number of different element
quality metrics that can be employed; by default we use the so-called
`SHAPE` quality metric. For more information about element quality
metrics, see P. Knupp, "Algebraic mesh quality metrics for
unstructured initial meshes," Finite Elements in Analysis and Design
39, 2003, p. 217-241, Sections 5.2 and 5.3. Low-quality elements such
as nearly-degenerate quads/hexes and sliver tets/tris can negatively
influence matrix conditioning and solution accuracy, and generally
should be avoided if possible.


## Add FEProblem-derived objects via Actions

Custom Problems are advanced MOOSE objects which are useful in several
different scenarios, including coupling to external codes
(`ExternalProblem`) and solving eigenvalue problems
(`EigenProblem`). Prior to this new capability, using a custom Problem
required users to declare a `Problem` block in their input file with a
custom `type =` field, and this process has now been streamlined.
Application developers can now also use an `Action` to add the derived
`FEProblem` object programmatically. This makes input files more
flexible and simpler, and allows the type of `Problem` chosen to
depend on other information in the input file. This way, users can
switch back and forth between different problem types with only minor
modifications to their input file.

A test of this new capability has been added in
[tests/problems/action_custom_fe_problem/action_custom_fe_problem_test.i].
This test uses the dummy `CreateSpecialProblemAction` to add an
`FEProblem`-derived class of type `MooseTestProblem`. The new capability
is accessed in the test via the following input file syntax:

```
[TestProblem]
  name = 'MOOSE Action Test problem'
[]
```

Application developers can follow the pattern established by
`CreateSpecialProblemAction` to make it easier to use custom problem
types in their own codes.

## Bug fixes

- A bug in NodalNormalBC which prevented derived classes from
  correctly using the computed nodal normals was fixed in
  [commit 4910bfa8](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/commit/4910bfa8a8a8cc033985dfcbf8126a9425f49a28).
