# MOOSE Newsletter (May 2018)

## True Explicit

MOOSE has had an `explicit-euler` option for a long time.  Unfortunately, it still involved a lot of
the nonlinear solution algorithm and included a linear solve using the mass matrix.  Now
[a true Explicit capability has been merged into MOOSE](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/pull/11378).
This new capability differentiates itself by being extremely lean and fast and providing the ability
for lumped-mass explicit updates that don't even need to solve a linear system.  For more information
see [/ActuallyExplicitEuler.md]

## Vector Finite Elements

MOOSE [now supports](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/pull/10238) vector finite elements. Currently
available element types are `LAGRANGE_VEC` and `NEDELEC_ONE`. The former is equivalent to a vector
of scalar `LAGRANGE` elements and is useful in applications like tensor mechanics or Navier-Stokes
in which the user would have to specify multiple kernel blocks for displacement or velocity
components. `NEDELEC_ONE` elements are specifically tailored for PDEs involving curl operators such
as Maxwell's equations. Introductory examples can be found in the MOOSE test suite
(`/test/tests/kernels/vector_fe`).

## Control System Improved

The [Controls/index.md] was updated to improve performance and usability. With respect to performance
all parameters that are declared as controllable are cached during object creation. This allows
retrieval to be more efficient and easier; previously every object and parameter was interrogated
with every call to change it. With respect to usability, the `ControllableParameter` objects are no
longer templates, only the get/set methods on this object require a template argument. This allows
for Control objects to be generic, for example the [SamplerReceiver.md] now allows for vector
parameters to be modified.

## Hypre Documentation

Not really a new capability in MOOSE: but still important!  A new set of documentation about how to
use the Hypre BoomerAMG Preconditioner [has been developed](/hypre.md).  The document goes over both
basic and advanced usage and is a must read for anyone regularly using Hypre.
[Here is a direct link](/hypre.md) but you can always get to it from the
[Application Development](application_development/index.md) page.

## Debugging

Debugging MOOSE-based executables (especially in parallel)
[got a large upgrade this month](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/pull/11170). It is now
straightforward to start a MOOSE-based solve and have it pop up interactive debugging windows that
are attached to each MPI process using `--start-in-debugger`.  For larger jobs,
`--stop-for-debugger`, gives you time to attach to whatever processor you wish.  For more information
see [application_development/debugging.md].

## WorkBalance, StatisticsVectorPostprocessor and VectorPostprocessorVisualization

A new capability has [been merged](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/pull/11216) that allows for
better inspection of work balance (or imbalance!) in parallel.  The [/WorkBalance.md]
VectorPostprocessor will output many different metrics detailing how much work and communication each
MPI process is doing.  For more information see [/WorkBalance.md]

In order to understand the output of [/WorkBalance.md] you can use the new
StatisticsVectorPostprocessor.  It allows you to compute aggregate statistics of another VPP
(like WorkBalance) such as: min, max, average, stddev, etc.

In addition, if you would like to visualize a VPP where the vectors are `n_procs` in length you can
use the [/VectorPostprocessorVisualizationAux.md] AuxKernel.  For instance, this can be used to
visualize the `num_elem` vector from WorkBalance so you can visually inspect the performance of your
partitioner.

## MOOSE `base` reorganization

In case you haven't noticed, MOOSE went through
[a signficant reorganization](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/pull/10975).  The main activity was
moving files out of `base` and creating new subdirectories like `loops`, `systems`, `problems`, etc.
The `base` directory had outgrown itself - and it was time for some spring cleaning!  In addition to
better organization this also sped up compile times on laptops by 25% (even beyond the huge speedup
gained by [Unity Builds](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/pull/10578)).

## Custom Line Searches

MOOSE [now allows](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/pull/10951) implementation of custom
line-searches for custom non-linear solution algorithms. Users wishing to create their own line
search have to inherit from the `LineSearch` class and override the `lineSearch` method. A
demonstration of a custom line search implementation can be found in the
[`PetscContactLineSearch`](/ContactLineSearch.md); this class will cut the line search parameter
(lambda) up to a specified number of times as long as the residual is decreasing. This is
effectively an intermediate between `basic` and `bt` line-searches: it performs a search to reduce
the residual but *will* allow temporary increases in the non-linear residual. Moreover, while the
contact set is changing early in the non-linear solve, a custom linear tolerance can be set in order
to avoid over-solving.

## Mesh Splitting

Functionality for an automated [pre-split mesh workflow](/splitting.md) for use with distributed
mesh has been implemented.  This allows large meshes to be easily partitioned and split into
configurations for performing parallel runs on specific numbers of processors. This helps reduce
memory usage and drastically speed up setup/initialization time among other improvements.

## Parameter-specific Error Messages

When performing input parameter specific error checking for your moose objects and actions,
consider using the new `paramError` and `paramWarning` functions.  These functions act like
`mooseError` and `mooseWarning`, except they take an extra argument specifying an input parameter
name that is used to annotate the error/warning output with relevant input-file location
information.  For example:

```cpp
MyObject::MyObject(InputParameters & params)
{
    if (getParam<int>("foo") < 42)
      paramError("foo", "value must be greater than or equal to 42);
}
```

Would give users an error like:

```
yourinput.i:23: (UserObjects/yourobject/foo) value must be greater than or equal to 42
```

where 23 is the line number in the input file.

## Parameter Error Checking

Additional [checking](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/pull/10547) has been implemented that
warns when moose object parameters are set without ever having been specified in the `validParams`
functions.  This prevents setting parameters in-code that end up being silently ignored by the
destination object - which happens sometimes due to typos or merting multiple parameters before
object creation among other ways.  The error messages look like this:

```text
Attempted to set unregistered parameter(s) for YourObject object:
    foo, bar, foobar, etc.
```

## Plugin for XFEM Result Visualization in ParaView

The MOOSE XFEM module allows for arbitrary mesh-independent discontinuities to be represented in a
finite element model using the extended finite element method (XFEM).  The simulation results from
this technique require some additional processing to be correctly visualized because the technique
generates pairs of overlapping elements that need to be clipped to show only the physically relevant
parts of the solution.

A plugin for visualizing results generated using that technique has been merged into the master
branch of the open-source [ParaView](https://paraview.org) visualization tool. This plugin has been
openly available for some time on [github](https://github.com/idaholab/XFEMParaviewPlugin), but to
use it, it was necessary to build ParaView from source. Now that this plugin is part of ParaView, it
is available in its nightly builds, and will be part of the upcoming 5.6 release. This plugin can be
enabled within ParaView by selecting `Tools->Manage Plugins->MooseXfemClip`, selecting the `Auto
Load` option, and then restarting ParaView. If the results of a MOOSE-based model using XFEM are
loaded, this filter can be applied by selecting `Filters->Alphabetical->MooseXfemClip`.
