framework/doc/content/source/auxkernels/ProjectionAux.md, before:

# ProjectionAux

!syntax description /AuxKernels/ProjectionAux

The `ProjectionAux` can be used to make a copy of a field variable, for example to lag them in certain numerical schemes.
Many `AuxKernels` can use variables as arguments, without modifying them, and store the
result in a separate variable. The use of a `ProjectionAux` can often be avoided for that reason.

The `ProjectionAux` can also be used to project between different finite element variable families and order.
The [!param](/AuxKernels/ProjectionAux/v) parameter is then the source variable.

The default projection method will attempt to enforce that the two variables have the same value on every quadrature point.
If the shape of the source cannot be reproduced by the target variable finite element family and order,
the modeler is invited to measure the projection error using a [ElementL2Difference.md] postprocessor.

!syntax parameters /AuxKernels/ProjectionAux

!syntax inputs /AuxKernels/ProjectionAux

!syntax children /AuxKernels/ProjectionAux

Commit message:

Add projection capability from elemental to nodal variables, #22373

framework/doc/content/source/auxkernels/ProjectionAux.md, after:

# ProjectionAux

!syntax description /AuxKernels/ProjectionAux

The `ProjectionAux` can be used to make a copy of a field variable, for example to lag them in certain numerical schemes.
Many `AuxKernels` can use variables as arguments, without modifying them, and store the
result in a separate variable. The use of a `ProjectionAux` can often be avoided for that reason.

The `ProjectionAux` can also be used to project between different finite element variable families and order.
The [!param](/AuxKernels/ProjectionAux/v) parameter is then the source variable.

The default projection method will attempt to enforce that the two variables have the same value on every quadrature point.
If the shape of the source cannot be reproduced by the target variable finite element family and order,
the modeler is invited to measure the projection error using a [ElementL2Difference.md] postprocessor.

!alert note
Elemental variables are projected to nodal variables by computing nodal values as element-volume-weighted
averages of the centroid values of neighbor elements.

!syntax parameters /AuxKernels/ProjectionAux

!syntax inputs /AuxKernels/ProjectionAux

!syntax children /AuxKernels/ProjectionAux
