# MOOSE Newsletter (July 2018)

## Jacobian testers

The MOOSE python Jacobian test capabilities have been updated to work
with PETSc versions >= 3.9. Users of PETSc versions >= 3.9 now have
the capability to test their Jacobians at every non-linear iteration
instead of just on the initial condition.

The old Jacobian testing capability, which used the PETSc option
`-snes_type test`, terminated application execution after one
calculation of the Jacobian. In PETSc versions >= 3.9, the `-snes_type
test` option has been replaced with `-snes_test_jacobian`. With this
option, MOOSE applications will run normally and the hand-coded
Jacobian will be compared against a finite-difference Jacobian at
every non-linear iteration.

This can be very useful since it's difficult to capture all possible
function states in an initial condition, e.g. a good result with the
old option `-snes_type test` may lull the application developer into
thinking that their Jacobian is perfect under all circumstances when
it is not.

## Relationship Managers with Pre-split Meshes

[RelationshipManagers](relationship_managers.md) now work properly when using MOOSE's
[mesh splitter](splitting.md) capability. If you have a simulation that requires extra geometric
information, the RelationshipManagers are triggered during the mesh splitting process so that
information is available when reading in pre-split meshes.

## Bug fixes

- Fixed incorrect input file line number error reporting under certain circumstances.
- Fixed some missed cases of unused parameter tracking.
- MOOSE errors out properly when the Executioner is accidentally omitted from an input file.
- Using "--split-mesh" with a DistributedMesh now produces a useful error message.
- LayeredBase-derived objects are now restartable.

## PETSc external partitioner

The [PetscExternalPartitioner](PetscExternalPartitioner.md) interface
has been incorporated into MOOSE. This interface provides a unified
API to external mesh partitioning packages such as ParMETIS, Chaco,
Party, and PTScotch, and a mechanism for assigning weights to elements
and sides to facilitate workload balancing and communication minimization.

## Peacock Exodus Viewer Improvements

!row!

!col! small=12 medium=12 large=7
The results tab of peacock ("ExodusViewer") was updated, a screenshot is shown in [fig:exodus_tab]:

- Result refresh is now more efficient;
- The tab was redesigned to be more compact, with less frequently-used controls moved to menu items;
- The min/max toggles were redesigned to be cached with each variable as well as control if the
  automatic values should be computed via the visible or complete model;
- The block selection is now more compact, and uses a drop-down control.

It is possible to run Peacock as an Exodus viewer by passing the `--exodus` or `-r` flags
on the command line.

```bash
~/projects/moose/python/peacock/peacock -r path/to/an/exodus/file/here.e
```
!col-end!

!col! small=12 medium=12 large=5
!media peacock/exodus_tab.png caption=Re-designed Exodus viewer tab. id=fig:exodus_tab
!col-end!

!row-end!
