# MOOSE Newsletter (August 2018)

## MooseDocs Plots

It is now possible to include line plots in MOOSE markdown. The plots are created using
[plotly]; additional information may be found on the [graph.md] page.

```markdown
!plot scatter data=[{'x':[1,2,3,4], 'y':[2,4,6,8], 'name':'2x'},
                    {'x':[1,2,3,4], 'y':[1,4,9,16], 'name':'x*x', 'marker':{'size':14}}]
```

!plot scatter data=[{'x':[1,2,3,4], 'y':[2,4,6,8], 'name':'2x'},
                    {'x':[1,2,3,4], 'y':[1,4,9,16], 'name':'x*x', 'marker':{'size':14}}]

## MeshModifier for creating lower dimensional blocks

It is now possible to generate a lower dimensional block from sidesets using the
MOOSE MeshModifier `LowerDBlockFromSideset`. The required parameters to use the
modifier are `sidesets` which is a vector of `BoundaryID`s from which to build
the new block and `new_block_id` which is the `SubdomainID` of the new block. An
optional parameter is `new_block_name` if the user wants to define a name for
the newly created block. The order of the lower dimensional elements created
will match the order of the parent element. E.g. if we are creating a block from
`QUAD9` or `TRI6` faces, then the newly created 1D block will have elements of type
`EDGE3`. `QUAD4` and `TRI3` elements would yield `EDGE2`. 3D behavior is
analogous. The snippet below shows input file syntax for using
`LowerDBlocksFromSideset`:

```
[MeshModifiers]
  [./lower]
    type = LowerDBlockFromSideset
    sidesets = '0 1 2 3'
    new_block_id = 10
    new_block_name = 'lower_d'
  [../]
[]
```


## Threaded General User Objects

Up until now, general user objects were executed in a single threaded region, even if the
application ran with multiple-threads.  Now, it is possible to have threaded general user objects.
Users need to inherit from `ThreadedGeneralUserObject` class and MOOSE will create one threaded
instance per thread. Then, it is possible to safely access the user object from each thread. This
is not possible in the normal GeneralUserObject unless the access is guarded with a spin mutex.

The `fluid_properties` module was updated to use the `ThreadedGeneralUserObject` to ensure that
fluid property lookup is always thread safe and that there is no loss of performance.

Note that `ThreadedGeneralUserObject`s are not available when users use pthreads as their threading
model. The reason is that if a `ThreadedGeneralUserObject` (which runs in a threaded region) created
a threaded section, there would be `n_threads + n_threads^2` threads active which would cause a
performance loss.  If threaded general user objects are needed, they will run properly with OpenMP
or TBB.

[plotly]: https://plot.ly/

## Working with a different version of libMesh

A new flag has been added to the update_and_rebuild.sh script so that you can work with a different
version of libmesh. This can be handy when a new feature makes its way into libMesh but has not
been rolled out in MOOSE yet. To use this flag, simply check out the version of libMesh that you want
and supply "--skip-submodule-update" on the command line to keep that version when you build libMesh.

## GrainTracker Enhancements

For those people working with phase-field and using the GrainTracker, several enhacements and updates
were added during July. First, a significant algorithmic change parallelizing the merging of
grains across multiple processors was completed, resulting in a significant speed increase when running
larger problems. Second, an experimental "boundary restrictable" capability was added to only
count features on specified boundaries. New test cases and large input files were
added. A `tolerate_failure` option was also added, along with several new PerfGraph timers, for profiling
purposes.

## Parameter Error and Warning

Formatting improvments merged this month.

+What is paramWarning and paramError?+

While these methods are not new features (they were introduced earlier this spring), it's worth
mentioning again. All developers are encouraged to use the paramInfo, paramWarning, or paramError
methods instead of the mooseInfo, mooseWarning, or mooseError methods in MOOSE when working with input
parameters. The former methods report line numbers along with user supplied messages when information,
warnings, or errors are issued. This can be very helpful when users are hunting down input file
problems.

## Bug fixes

- LayeredBase is now restartable (finally)
- Better errors for unregistered objects
- AverageGrainVolume now correctly calculates by dividing by the number of active (not total) grains
