# MOOSE News (February 2019)

## Continued Automatic Differentiation Expansion

Automatic differentiation can now be conducted for `VectorKernels`, `NodalBCs`,
`VectorNodalBCs`, `IntegratedBCs`, and `VectorIntegratedBCs`. Additionally, the
framework now calculates the dependence of important finite element quanitites
like `JxW`, shape function gradients and consequently variable gradients,
`normals`, and 'curvatures` on mesh displacements. Calculating these
dependencies is critical for efficient non-linear solves of large-deformation
solid mechanics, laser-melting/welding, and fluid-structure-interaction
problems.

## Improved support for "execute_on = FINAL"

Support for executing objects with the "FINAL" execute flag was improved; specifically, the ability
to perform a transfers on final was added. This change also involved improving support for Exodus
output to also be limited to final.

Additionally, the ability to create symbolic links to the "latest" and "final" versions of
VectorPostprocessor output was added. This capability is controlled via the [CSV.md] output object
using the `create_latest_symlink` and `create_final_symlink` input parameter flags. These flags,
when enabled, will create files with "_LATEST" and "_FINAL". The latest flag will link to the last
timestep for the most current simulation run and the final flag will point to the file created
if the output object is setup to execute on final.

## MultiApp Input Control Support

The ability to control MultiApp command line arguments during the MultiApp initialization was
added to allow for input parameters for each MultiApp to be defined via the input file of the
parent application.

For example, the following snippet show a MultiApps input block that is creates two sub-applications
from a single input file. Using the 'cli_args' input parameter the mesh size for the two
applications is modified.

!listing command_line/parent.i block=MultiApps

For more advanced parameter manipulation the [Control System](Controls/index.md) should be utilized.
For example, within the [stochastic tools module](stochastic_tools/index.md) the following test
demonstrates the ability to set input parameters within the sub-applications with values from a
distribution.

!listing multiapps/commandline_control/parent_multiple.i
