# MOOSE Newsletter (August 2019)

## Documentation

The Adaptivity documentation was improved: [Adaptivity.md].

The software quality documentation tools were improved to enable documentation from the framework,
modules, and other applications to be inherited. See [sqa/index.md exact=True] for an example.

## Coupling Relationship Managers

The `RelationshipManager` system now supports coupling functors, which can be
used to tell PETSc the correct matrix sparsity pattern. This is useful for
simulations that have degree of freedom coupling beyond traditional continuous
FEM intra-element coupling. For example for discontinuous Galerkin finite
element methods, element residuals will depend on neighboring degrees of
freedom. Some MOOSE users like @WilkAndy require even more exotic sparsity
patterns for schemes like the Kuzmin-turek FEM-TVD scheme. A
`RelationshipManager` defining custom coupling can be added in a very similar
way as that for geometric or algebraic ghosting. For example in the
`validParams` template specialization for `AdvectiveFluxCalculatorBase` we add
two layers of geometric, algebraic, and coupling ghosting using the code:

```c++
  params.addRelationshipManager("ElementPointNeighborLayers",
                                Moose::RelationshipManagerType::GEOMETRIC |
                                    Moose::RelationshipManagerType::ALGEBRAIC |
                                    Moose::RelationshipManagerType::COUPLING,
                                [](const InputParameters &, InputParameters & rm_params) {
                                  rm_params.set<unsigned short>("layers") = 2;
                                });
```

where the need for custom coupling is specified using the
`Moose::RelationshipManagerType::COUPLING` enumerator.

Additional discussion of the `RelationshipManager` system can be found in its
[documentation](/RelationshipManager.md).

## MooseVariables as MooseObjects

`MooseVariables` are now `MooseObjects`. This should have a relatively small
impact on the MOOSE community, however, application developers who add their
variables through actions are encouraged to drop use of the deprecated
`FEProblemBase::add*Variable` methods and switch to the new
`add*Variable(std::string type, std::string name, InputParameters params)`
API.
