# MOOSE News (May 2019)

## Method of Manufactured Solution (MMS)

The method of manufactured solutions is a robust means to verify that simulation tools
are correct. Therefore, tools and documentation for performing this type of analysis has been
added to the code base.

[python/mms.md]

## AuxKernel Documentation

The documentation for the [AuxKernels/index.md] has been improved to include a few examples of how
the system should be utilized.

## Vector Variable Support for Auxiliary System

The `VectorAuxKernel base class was created to allow for vector auxiliary variables. For example,
it is now possible to create an auxiliary variable that is populated by a parsed function.
The following partial input file shows an example of populating a vector auxiliary variable
using a parsed function.

!listing vector_function_aux.i block=AuxVariables Functions AuxKernels

## Improved Support for AD Objects in MOOSEDocs

The need to include the `<RESIDUAL>` template argument for AD objects is no longer needed within
the MOOSEDocs syntax calls. For example, the following command can be used to list the available
parameters for the `ADDiffusion` object.

!listing ADDiffusion.md line=syntax parameters

## What is a Requirement?

If you are using MOOSEDocs for tracking requirements within a test specification, the following
pages provide detailed information about what is expected.

[Documenting MOOSE: Requirement, Design, and Issues](MooseDocs/generate.md#requirement-design-and-issues)

[what_is_a_requirement.md]

## AD Time Kernels Generalized

There are now three ADKernel base objects, as listed below, that may be used for time derivative
portions of partial differential equations. More information about Kernel object in general
is provided in the [syntax/Kernels/index.md] documentation.

| Object | Purpose |
|:-|:-|
| +ADTimeKernelValue+ | This object should be used for time derivative terms that require +only+ the =test function=. |
| +ADTimeKernelGrad+ | This object should be used for time derivative terms that require +only+ the =gradient of the test function=. |
| +ADTimeKernel+ | This object should be used for time derivative terms that require +both+ the =test function= and the =gradient of the test function=. |
