# MOOSE Newsletter (December 2019)

## Improved Stochastic Tools Sampler API

The Sampler base class was updated to include a more efficient API for computing sample data in
parallel with minimal memory impact. Please refer to [distributed_samples.md] for more information.

## Miscellaneous enhancements and bug fixes

- The TestHarness now properly detects failures in the Part1 test when using the --recover flag.
- "Timed Print" formatting fixed when a nested call to this utility is made.
- Don't allow the use of "contains_complete_history" parameter in `FeatureVolumeVectorPostprocessor`.
- BoundaryRenameGenerator bug fix when `old_boundary_name` is used.

## Python 3 Update

All python-based utilities within MOOSE (e.g., the test harness, peacock, and MooseDocs) have
been upgraded to utilize Python 3, which some maintaining support for Python 2.
[Official language support for Python 2](https://www.python.org/doc/sunset-python-2/)
officially ends on 1/1/2020. Python 2 support for tools in MOOSE will also end at this time.
To upgrade to use Python 3, please update your MOOSE environment package by following the
[getting_started/index.md] instructions.

## Solid Mechanics module retirement schedule

The solid mechanics capabilities in the MOOSE modules were originally provided by the `solid_mechanics` module. Because of limitations with the architecture of the material models in that module, a decision was made several years to re-implement the mechanics capabilities in a new module called `tensor_mechanics`. After a significant development effort, we have migrated all of the models in the INL-developed applications that use mechanics capabilities to be based on `tensor_mechanics`, and we are getting ready to remove the `solid_mechanics` module. Use of any models based on `solid_mechanics` in those applications now generates a deprecation warning message, and we will remove the models based on `solid_mechanics` in the INL-developed MOOSE-based applications on June 30th, 2020. We will remove the `solid_mechanics` module from MOOSE one month later, on July 31, 2020.

We have been publicizing that this change has been coming for a long time, and expect that any new models that are being set up now are based on the `tensor_mechanics` module. The BISON team has put together an [extensive guide](https://mooseframework.org/bison/tutorials/mechanics_conversion/conversion_guidelines.html) on how to migrate existing models to use `tensor_mechanics` as part of BISON's code documentation. While there are details in that guide that apply only to BISON models, the general principles are applicable to converting any model that uses mechanics.

There are a number of advantages to `tensor_mechanics`, with the biggest one being that it has a cleaner, modular architecture that provides greater flexibility in the kinds of material behavior that can be modeled. In our experience, run times are fairly comparable between the `solid_mechanics` and `tensor_mechanics` systems. Our primary motivation for removal of `solid_mechanics` is that it requires significant resources to maintain two sets of mechanics models. This will allow us to focus our resources on improving and adding to MOOSE's mechanics capabilities. In the last couple of years, all new development has been done in `tensor_mechanics`, so there are many new models and improvements to existing models that are only available in `tensor_mechanics`.

We are serious about sticking to the July 31st date for retirement of `solid_mechanics`.  If you have any concerns about impacts that this schedule might have on your work, please let us know as soon as possible. We appreciate that this will require some effort to migrate models, and we are happy to provide assistance if you run into issues with that. Please note that you will still be able to run `solid_mechanics` models with pre-July 31, 2020 versions of MOOSE, but you will not have access to new features beyond that point if you choose to do that. If you haven't already done so, we highly encourage you to start migrating any existing models that you are interested in running with future versions of MOOSE.
