# MOOSE Newsletter (July 2020)

## ADInterfaceKernel

`ADInterfaceKernel` was added to ease development of complex interfacial
physics. Users who inherit from `ADInterfaceKernel` now only have to implement a
`computeQpResidual` function.

## New prereq option for tests

Users can now use the test option `prereq = ALL` when they wish to run a
particular test last in a spec file (i.e., after all other tests in the same
file are completed). This feature is intended to be used in test spec files with
many tests. Here are a few more notes:

- *All tests* within the spec file must run and pass for this
  attribute to have any effect.
- If you have any tests hard coded to be skipped or are going to be skipped due
  to some caveat (like `compiler = clang`), the final test attributed with
  `prereq = ALL` will be skipped as well.
- If a test is using `prereq = ALL` while another test in the same test spec
  file is named `ALL`, an error will be thrown.

A simple example of how to use this new option is shown below:

```
[Tests]
  [c]
    type = RunApp
    input = test_c.i
    prereq = ALL
  []
  [a]
    type = RunApp
    input = test_a.i
    prereq = b
  []
  [b]
    type = RunApp
    input = test_b.i
  []
[]
```

In this configuration, Test B will run first, then Test A, and Test C will be
performed last (unless A or B fail).

## Parallel Mesh Generator

Periodic boundary conditions setup was implemented in a scalable, distributed
fashion when the mesh is generated in parallel. A new option `num_cores_for_partition`
was introduced in [DistributedRectilinearMeshGenerator.md] to allow users to partition
the mesh using a small number of processors while the simulation is carried out using a
large number of cores. That potentially speedup the parallel mesh generation.
