# MOOSE Newsletter (May 2020)

## AD 2.0

Automatic differentiation (AD) capabilities in MOOSE have been
refactored. Application developers no longer have to use templating to take
advantage of AD; AD object APIs should appear nearly identical to their non-AD
counterparts. This change is meant to lower the barrier to entry to AD for
application developers as well as ease maintenance in the framework. This
doesn't come without some tradeoff; users who employ `solve_type = PJFNK` and
extensively use AD will experience a slow-down in their simulations of about
1.5-2. However, for `solve_type = NEWTON`, which is the recommmended `solve_type`
for AD applications, no appreciable slow-down should be observed. One other
important change is that a material property that is declared AD must be
retrieved as an AD property; similary for a regular property. E.g. these are the
allowed pairings of `declare/get`: `declareADProperty/getADMaterialProperty` and
`declareProperty/getMaterialProperty`. An overview of AD can be found
[here](automatic_differentiation/index.md).

## Stochastic Tools

1. The surrogate system within the stochastic tools modules was enhanced to support the creation
   of trainer and evaluation objects. This includes the ability to store and load arbitrary training
   data for both in memory evaluation or loading from a file.
2. The documentation for the stochastic tools module was improved to include more examples, including
   using the new train/evaluate object structure, see [modules/stochastic_tools/index.md].

## Python parameters package

A new python package for input parameters was created in the python directory. This new package is
thoroughly tested and will replace the various other parameter systems within the MOOSE python tools
in the near future. Please consider using this new package if you are creating python tools in an
application and desire a parameter system.

## Finite Volumes

Experimental support for solving PDEs using the finite volume method has been added to MOOSE.

## Conda Environment Installation

The traditional moose-environment packages have been replaced with conda-packages, see [installation/conda.md].
