# MOOSE Newsletter (August 2021)

## AD Scalar Kernels

Scalar kernels can now use [automatic differentiation (AD)](automatic_differentiation/index.md).
While AD is not necessary for systems of ordinary differential equations (ODEs)
involving only scalar variables (due to the exact Jacobians offered by
[ParsedODEKernel.md], for example), ODEs involving contributions from field
variables greatly benefit from AD. For example, an elemental user object may
compute an `ADReal` value from field variable(s) on a domain, which then may
be used in a scalar equation.

To create an AD scalar kernel, derive from `ADScalarKernel` and implement the
method `computeQpResidual()`. As a caution, if using user objects to compute
`ADReal` values, be sure to execute those user objects on `NONLINEAR` to
ensure the derivatives in the `ADReal` value are populated.

## Multiple Content Configurations in MooseDocs

MooseDocs is now capable of translating multiple sets of markdown
([MooseDown](MooseDocs/specification.md)) and other file contents that each use unique and
independent configurations, i.e., each with their own instances of readers, renderers, executioners,
and extensions. This means that pages of a website may appear and function very unalike from each
other, yet build together still by a single '`./moosedocs.py build --serve`' job and be served under
the same home address. Think of this feature as the ability to combine many websites into one. For
example, the main [MOOSE website](index.md exact=True) and the
[workshop/index.md alternative=missing_config.md] can now be built together even though they are
translated from MooseDown to HTML in a much different way and require separate styling and
JavaScript methods. Another example is two pages could use two different main menu bars or different
executables and instructions for retrieving [application syntax](MooseDocs/extensions/appsyntax.md).

Most notably, this new feature provides the ability to cross-link between the content sets using the
[python/MooseDocs/extensions/autolink.md]. The build routines assume that there's no difference
between pages of different configurations, including while making edits during a live reload, and
the user can assume that interactions between pages work exactly the same as they always have. The
[MooseDocs/config.md] page was revised to reflect these changes, namely, please see the
[MooseDocs/config.md#multiconfigs] section to learn how to take advantage of this new system.

## Improvements to Navier Stokes Flow capabilities

- Thermal boundary conditions, including radiative and convective heat transfer boundary conditions,
  were reworked to support primitive, mixed, and conservative variable sets for fluid flow.
- Initial conditions for conservative variable sets were added. This allows for a simple initialization of
  density, energy and momentum from temperature, velocity and pressure.

## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements

- In [ExplicitSSPRungeKutta.md], a bug was fixed where a segmentation fault was
  occurring in some corner cases when using automatic differentiation, due to
  calling `computeADTimeDerivatives` before initializing some stage data, even
  though in these cases, the resulting value is not used. Now, a quiet NaN is
  returned instead of trying to use an invalid pointer.
- When using time integrators deriving from [ExplicitTimeIntegrator.md], if
  `solve_type` was set to anything other than `LINEAR`, a segmentation fault
  would occur. Now, an error message is given instead.
- Missing class documentation was added for actions and auxiliary kernels.
- When a block or boundary is misspelled, the code will now output the name of the
  block or boundary in addition to a newly generated id, which will simplify the
  search for the issue.
- Dependency resolution between user objects and auxiliary kernels will now be cognizant
  of their respective execution flags.
- If the dependency resolution between user objects and auxiliary kernels is known to fail in a given case,
  incorrectly executing the user object before the auxiliary kernel,
  a `force_postaux` boolean parameter to the user object may be used to re-establish the correct order.


## Optional-parameter additions for mesh uniform refinement

- `skip_deletion_repartition_after_refine` instructs moose to skip remote-element deletion and mesh repartition.
  This parameter is off by default. If the flag is true, uniform refinements will run more efficiently,
  but at the same time, there might be extra ghosting elements. The number of layers of additional ghosting
  elements depends on the number of uniform refinement levels. This flag should be used
  only when you have a fine enough coarse mesh and want to refine the mesh by a few
  levels. Otherwise, it might introduce an unbalanced workload and a large ghosted domain.

- `skip_refine_when_use_split` instructs moose to skip uniform refinements using pre-split meshes.
  The motivation of adding this parameter is to uniformly refine pre-split meshes to enable
  high-fidelity simulations when setting the parameter to be `false.`

## Load command-line arguments from files for multiapp

An input-file parameter `cli_args_files` was added to load additional command-line
arguments for the multiapp system from files.  The parameters are populated to sub-applications
during their creations.  That is useful when we want to populate different parameters
for each sub-application, and the total number of sub-applications is large. Otherwise,
the input file will not be manageable if we add thousands of parameters directly
to the input file.
