# MOOSE Newsletter (March 2022)

## Conda MPICH Updated to 4.0.1, GCC to 10.3.0

The `moose-mpich` package has been updated to 4.0.1 and now relies entirely on
the MPICH built by the conda-forge maintainers (`mpich-mpicc`, `mpich-mpicxx`,
and `mpich-mpifort`). As a result of this change, the default compilers installed
on Linux using the MOOSE package are now GCC 10.3.0 / gfortran 10.3.0. Minimum
supported compilers (see [below](2022_03.md#cxx17-support)) remain the same and
Clang 12.0.1 / gfortran 9.3.0 is still the default compiler set on MacOS. The bulk
of MOOSE PR testing will still be done using GCC 9, to maintain compatibility over
a broad range of compiler releases.

To update your MOOSE packages, please activate your MOOSE conda environment and
perform the command:

```
mamba update --all
```

The following package versions and builds outlined in the update prompt should be
at least the following:

```
Package                  Version            Build
=====================================================
moose-libmesh            2022.03.18         build_0
moose-libmesh-vtk        9.1.0              build_5
moose-petsc              3.16.5             build_0
moose-mpich              4.0.1              build_0
```

## MOOSE Supports IGA Analysis

In an ongoing collaboration with [Coreform](https://coreform.com/), it
is now possible to perform spline-based isogeometric analysis (IGA)
simulations with MOOSE.

When MOOSE is built with Exodus 8 support (as is now done by default
in binary Linux distributions of MOOSE, when users build PETSc with
MOOSE scripts, or when users build with environment variables pointing
MOOSE to an existing HDF5 installation), Exodus IGA extensions are
supported, and isogeometric meshes can be read from Exodus files
output by Coreform Cubit.  Simulations on these meshes can calculate
solutions in either the spline basis or a derived
Rational-Bernstein-Bezier basis depending on a `clear_spline_nodes`
input setting.

A breakout model of a simple internally pressurized ring for a reactor
pressure vessel serves as an example.

!media news/iga_ring.png 
       style=width:50%;margin:0 auto;
       caption=Simulation using MOOSE IGA capabilities of a
               pressurized ring created with Coreform Cubit.

The analytical solution defines a peak stress of 95.3 Pa. A second-order IGA
solution converges within 0.01% of the exact solution compared to 0.2% for
a traditional second-order FEA method.

!media news/iga_error.png 
       style=width:75%;margin:0 auto;
       caption=Relative error of simulations using MOOSE IGA capabilities of a
               pressurized ring created with Coreform Cubit.

## MOOSE Improvements

### C++17 Support id=cxx17-support

MOOSE now requires a C++17 capable compiler and supports C++17 features. With
this, GCC 7 and Clang 5 are now the minimum supported compilers.

### HDF5 support in PETSc and libMesh now requested by default

The `update_and_rebuild_petsc` script now performs a basic search for a supported
HDF5 installation in the local environment by default. Developers can place an
HDF5 installation in the following searched locations:

- `/usr/lib/hdf5`
- `/usr/local/hdf5`
- `/usr/share/hdf5`
- `/usr/local/hdf5/share`
- `$HOME/.local`

Or select a custom location by setting one of the environment variables `HDF5_DIR`,
`HDF5DIR`, or `HDF5_ROOT`. If a compatible installation cannot be found, PETSc
will download and build it for the user on Linux. This fallback download option
is not yet available on MacOS, but will be coming soon. Subsequently, the
`update_and_rebuild_libmesh` script now uses the `--enable-hdf5` configure flag
and, with recent libMesh changes, attempts to find the HDF5 installation used by
PETSc.

The new conda packages mentioned above all contain the PETSc default HDF5 on Linux,
but no HDF5 is currently provided on MacOS (coming soon). A serial, pre-built HDF5
is available within the `moose-tools` package on either platform if this is sufficient
for developer needs.

### MultiAppUserObjectTransfer Suppoprts Transferring From The Nearest Sub-App

[/MultiAppUserObjectTransfer.md] gained a new option that allows transferring from the *nearest* sub-app app from a multiapp.  This will help in cases where the sub-app is a lower-dimensional manifold and therefore doesn't overlap with the domain of the parent app.

## libMesh-level Changes

### `2022.03.18` Update

- Update MetaPhysicL

  - `OpFunction` support for `DualNumber` and `SemiDynamicSparseNumberArray`, which
    means we can now do basic parallel `sum()` etc. on AD values
  - Implement `ReplaceAlgebraicType` to conveniently replace types in containers,
    and add ValueType for `std::array`, and `std::vector`
  - Add tolerance to `DynamicSparseNumberBase::sparsity_trim`
  - Simplify end/begin/rend/rbegin methods in `DynamicStdArrayWrapper`
  - When `DynamicStdArray` wrapper container size is exceeded, an error will now
    be thrown instead of an assert

- `get_nodeset_info()` bugfix in `MeshBase::get_info()` - sideset names were being
  requested instead of nodesets
- Deprecation warnings were fixed up in custom iterators due to C++17 and newer
  GCC/Clang
- `Poly2Tri` was updated to fix various bugs related to refinement, and support
  was added for non-uniform refinement
- Added virtual methods for specifying index maps that we can use for defining
  the `RBParameterizedFunction` used in EIM approximations
- Make `DynamicStdArrayWrapper` member protected
- Make the coordinate offset transfer be respected by discontinuous output, not
  just continuous output
- Allow proper const-ness for our `MeshBase` iterators
- `TypeNTensor` changes - `libmesh_not_implemented()` was added to all unimplemented
  functions and a mempcpy warning was fixed up

### `2022.03.02` Update

- Work towards source code compatibility with Windows
- Add an additional `outer_product` definition that supports `scalar * vector -> vector`
- Add auto-detection for PETSc external packages, notably HDF5
- Add internal thread safety within `NumericVector` subclasses
- Add initial support for `Poly2Tri` triangulations and refactor `TriangulatorInterface`
- Optimize `InfFE::reinit` when not all data has been requested
- Support the matrix-free case when computing the residual and Jacobian together
- Add more robust `Packing` for communication of fixed-size classes win variable-size containers
- Enable setting PETSc mat/vec types at runtime for future GPU use
- Require C++17 support and begin using it internally
- Add new static `TensorValue::rotation_matrix` helper functions

## PETSc-level Changes

PETSc has been updated to the 3.16.5 release. This release should have performance
improvements and better infrastructure support, but much of the update is transparent
to MOOSE users. The detailed PETSc release notes can be found at [the PETSc website](https://petsc.org/release/docs/changes/316/).

Changes that may be interesting to MOOSE users include the following:

- Added PCQR - an interface to SuiteSparse QR factorization, which is a direct
  solver. This can be triggered in MOOSE using the `-pc_type qr` option.
- PETSc has better GPU support via native solver options like GAMG, or other third-party
  solver options such as HYPRE. The enhanced GPU capability can be triggered in
  MOOSE via the `-mat_type aijcusparse -vec_type cuda` command line option. Note
  that GPU capability is still experimental in MOOSE, and only algebra solver
  operations are available on GPUs. Residual and Jacobian evaluations are not
  available on GPUs yet. If you want to have meaningful performance improvement,
  you have to explore many problem-dependent PETSc options.

## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements

- The `ElementPropertyReadFile` user object was deprecated and replaced by [PropertyReadFile.md].
  It can now load nodal data, and is no longer restricted to contiguous IDs for elements or nodes.
- The [PiecewiseConstantFromCSV.md] function was added to use the `PropertyReadFile` user object
  to compute a function based on data in a CSV file. The data may be sorted by element id, node id,
  block id or by nearest neighbor regions.

