# MOOSE Newsletter (February 2022)

## Legacy Input Parameter Removal

As announced in November 2021, the legacy input parameter construction method
(`InputParameters validParams<T>()`) is being removed on 1 March 2022 after two
years of support. Any remaining templated methods will not compile after this date.
For information on how to convert source code to the current input parameter
construction method, directions can be found in the
[original deprecation announcement](2021_11.md#legacy-input-parameter-deprecation).

## MOOSE Improvements

### Thermal Hydraulics Module

The Thermal Hydraulics Module (THM), which serves as the foundation for
applications such as RELAP-7 and Sockeye, is now open-source and available as the
MOOSE [Thermal Hydraulics](modules/thermal_hydraulics/index.md) module. Some
key features of this module include:

- The [Components system](Components/index.md), which provides a higher-level
  syntax for assembling simulations. `Components` create the lower-level MOOSE
  objects like the mesh, kernels, and boundary conditions. This is particularly
  well-suited to systems-level applications that primarily operate on 0-D and
  1-D components that connect together.
- The [Control logic system](ControlLogic/index.md) provides a similar capability
  as MOOSE's [Controls system](Controls/index.md) but integrates with the `Components`
  system.
- Components using 1D, single-phase flow using the Euler equations, discretized
  with the finite volume method with the HLLC Riemann solver. These components
  include flow channels, inlets/outlets, junctions, valves, heating terms, and
  turbo-machinery such as pumps, compressors, and turbines.

### Lagrangian solid mechanics kernels

A new system of solid mechanics kernels are available in the
[tensor mechanics](modules/tensor_mechanics/index.md) module.
These kernels both duplicate the existing updated Lagrangian formulation
used in the current kernels and also add a new option for a total
Lagrangian formulation.  The main goal of this project was to
provide exact large deformation Jacobians without requiring the use of
AD to increase the efficiency of running large, finite deformation simulations.
The system
[documentation](modules/tensor_mechanics/LagrangianKernelTheory.md)
includes a detailed description of the mathematical theory underlying the
kernels as well as information on the new features available along
with the kernels themselves.

Some of these new features include:

- Cartesian versions of a reformulated [updated Lagrangian](source/kernels/lagrangian/UpdatedLagrangianStressDivergence.md) kernel and a new
  [total Lagrangian](source/kernels/lagrangian/TotalLagrangianStressDivergence.md) kernel, both with exact large deformation Jacobians.
- [Stabilization](modules/tensor_mechanics/Stabilization.md) for linear triangular and tetraheadral elements.
- A [new material system](modules/tensor_mechanics/NewMaterialSystem.md), which provides new options for implementing
  material models, including options for defining material models with alternative stress measures.
- A new approach for applying an [objective integration](source/materials/lagrangian/  ComputeLagrangianObjectiveStress.md) to
  constitutive models defined in terms of the small (engineering) stress and strain to "promote" the response of these models
  to provide a large deformation material response.
- [Partial compatibility](source/materials/lagrangian/ComputeLagrangianWrappedStress.md) with the current MOOSE materials system.
- A [new homogenization subsystem](modules/tensor_mechanics/Homogenization.md) for applying cell-average stress or
  deformation constraints to periodic domains, useful for homogenizing the response of microstructural representative volume elements.

These changes, put together, should make it easier to run large deformation simulations, including
simulations with very large rotations or stretches.

!media tensor_mechanics/rotatecube.gif
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:50%;
      id=rotate_block
      caption=Large stretch and rotations simulation using the Lagrangian kernels.

The Lagrangian kernel system is included in the updated [tensor mechanics action](TensorMechanicsAction.md)
so users can switch between the current and Lagrangian kernels systems without significantly changing their
input files.

Over time additional features will be added to the Lagrangian kernel system to eventually bring it up
to full compatibility with the current kernels.  Some features the Lagrangian system currently lacks are:

- Axisymmetric and spherical coordinates.
- Generalized plane strain and plane stress formulations.

### Automatic differentiation support in MOOSE Functions

Dual number support has been added to the MOOSE `Function` system. Two overloads
now exist for the `value()` member function.

```
Real value(Real, Point);
ADReal value(ADReal, ADPoint);
```

This enables evaluation of functions with dual numbers. As most legacy function
do not implement  an AD overload of the `value()` function, the `Function` base
class automatically provides one that uses the non-AD `value()`,
`timeDerivative()`, and `gradient()` member functions to construct an AD result.
Check out
[`PiecewiseBilinear.C`](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/pull/20200/files#diff-269f04c2d048abf5058f746d123f609fa0f4982daa065de0ede74f2291f959be)
to see how to update a function to support AD by using a templated
`valueInternal()` function with virtual `value()` forwarders.

Check out [`BodyForce`](BodyForce.md) and
[`CoupledValueFunctionMaterial`](CoupledValueFunctionMaterial.md) for
applications of this new AD capability.

Additionally the API for the `value()` and `timeDerivative()` members has been
updated to permit the following usage:

```
auto r = func.value(t);
auto r = func.value(t, x);
auto r = func.value(t, x, y);
auto r = func.value(t, x, y, z);
```

This simplifies code that uses function evaluations with custom variables, such
as in `HeatConductionMaterial`, where a function that only depends on
temperature can be supplied. The variable temperature takes the place of the
first argument (internally designated as "time").

### Brayton cycle model demonstrated using the thermal hydraulics module

Examples demonstrating the startup and steady operation of a simple open-Brayton
and closed-Brayton cycle were demonstrated using the
[thermal hydraulics module](modules/thermal_hydraulics/index.md). This setup
consists of 0-D compressor and turbine models, connected via a common shaft,
as well as a motor and generator. The examples start from rest and have the
motor apply torque in the beginning of the transient. Eventually the compressor
and turbine are able to activate, and torque provided by the turbine provides
the torque necessary to sustain the compressor without help from the motor,
as well as provide excess torque to be applied to a generator for the production
of electricity. For more information on these examples, see
[thermal_hydraulics/modeling_guide/brayton_cycle/brayton_cycle.md].

### Finite volume Navier Stokes incompressible and weakly compressible implementation

The finite volume discretization of the Navier Stokes incompressible and weakly compressible
equations was reworked to feature a [INSFVRhieChowInterpolator.md], which handles face
interpolations of velocity. The user object gathers all the contributions to the diagonal
term in the momentum equation, allowing for performing Rhie Chow interpolation on the
face with the maximum amount of information about the contributions of the kernels (diffusion,
 friction term, ...) to the momentum equations.

This allows other objects to query face-interpolated velocities, from the user object, facilitating
future development of boundary conditions, postprocessors, auxiliary kernels and others.

The [ReynoldsNumberFunctorAux.md] auxliary kernels and [RayleighNumber.md] postprocessor were
added to help modelers understand characteristics of the flow they are studying, guiding their
physical analysis and helping with decisions about the numerical scheme.

## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements

- Additional documentation was released describing every kind of testers used by the MOOSE test suite
- Missing documentation for the [LibmeshPartitioner.md] and for how to perform a field split using
  preconditioning, see the [FieldSplitPreconditioner.md], was added
- Changes to MooseDocs parameter descriptions generated by `!syntax parameters` and other similar
  commands:

  - Removed empty "Options" fields, i.e., for parameter types that do not inherit from
    [`MooseEnumBase`](framework/include/utils/MooseEnumBase.h)
  - Added a "Controllable" field indicating "Yes" if a parameter is controllable or "No" otherwise
