# MOOSE Newsletter (January 2022)

## Conda MPICH Updated to 3.4.2

To gain enhanced support for newer platform architectures alongside various bug
fixes and enhancements, the `moose-mpich` package was updated to MPICH 3.4.2
([released May 2021](https://www.mpich.org/2021/05/28/mpich-3-4-2-released/)).
This update can be obtained by activating the conda MOOSE environment and performing:

```
conda update --all
```

where the appropriate versions and build numbers in the update output should be
at least the following:

```
Package                  Version            Build
=====================================================
moose-libmesh            2021.12.15         build_1
moose-libmesh-vtk        9.1.0              build_1
moose-mpich              3.4.2              build_0
moose-petsc              3.15.1             build_4
```

## MOOSE Improvements

### PeripheralTriangleMeshGenerator

A new mesh generator available in the MOOSE reactor module, the
[PeripheralTriangleMeshGenerator.md], allows users to take an arbitrary
2-D input mesh (typically a reactor core) and automatically add a triangulation
of the area in between the input mesh boundary and a circular periphery.  For thick
peripheries, element size within that area can be reduced by user-specified
parameters defining extra circles of element vertices to add.  The
output mesh may then be passed to other generators for further
extension, extrusion to 3-D, etc.

[triangle_steiner] shows an example triangulation around an existing core mesh.

!media media/meshgenerators/triangle_abtr_steiner.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:60%;
      id=triangle_steiner
      caption=An example triangulation generated by `PeripheralTriangleMeshGenerator` using Steiner point rings.

### PeripheralRingMeshGenerator

Another new mesh generator, [PeripheralRingMeshGenerator.md], is also available
in the MOOSE reactor module. The mesh generator adds a 2D peripheral region
using first-order quadrilateral elements (i.e., QUAD4) with a circular
external boundary to the input 2D mesh. It provides similar functionalities to
[PeripheralTriangleMeshGenerator.md], but with quadrilateral elements.
PeripheralRingMeshGenerator also works well for reactor cores with explicit pin
geometries in addition to coarser meshed assemblies, and it can be used
recursively on a mesh to add as many rings of peripheral regions as desired.

[quad_peripheral_mesh] shows an example of the peripheral mesh
generated by this mesh generator.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/core_ring.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:60%;
      id=quad_peripheral_mesh
      caption=An example peripheral ring (cyan region) generated by `PeripheralRingMeshGenerator`.

### Flux boundary conditions for the Navier Stokes finite volume implementation

[Mass](WCNSFVMassFluxBC.md), [momentum](WCNSFVMomentumFluxBC.md), [energy](WCNSFVEnergyFluxBC.md)
and [scalar quantity](WCNSFVScalarFluxBC.md) flux boundary conditions were added in order to facilitate
coupling between multi-dimensional fluid simulations and subchannel or system-level
simulations. The boundary conditions accept multiple formulations, based on conserved
or primitive variables, enabling maximum flexibility and reducing the need for additional
conversion of quantities between coupled applications.

## libMesh-level Changes

- Make `CompareDofObjectsByID` available to all. This is useful for building sets
  of node and element pointers that have more deterministic ordering than if the
  set was ordered based on the pointer addresses
- Make use of `std::condition_variable` for `_get_array`. Eliminates helgrind
  errors during multi-thread access to `PetscVector::get`
- Update to TIMPI 1.8.2
- Nanoflann update to 1.4.1
- Use get_unique_tag() for a few more MessageTags
- Remove caching from FE<CLOUGH>
- Higher precision when printing assert failures
- resolve warning of expectedly unbinned entries.
- Clear input data structure before using
- Don't unnecessarily compute the Jacobian for ComputeResidualandJacobian. This
  optimization will likely be leveraged in MOOSE in order to compute the residual
  and Jacobian simultaneously, avoiding duplicate variable and material property
  reinitialization.

## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements

- A boolean parameter `extrap` was added to [PiecewiseLinear.md], which when set
  to `true` specifies that extrapolation occurs when the sample is outside of the
  provided abscissa values, instead of using the nearest ordinate value.
- Documentation was added for certain [Problems](syntax/Problem/index.md) and [Predictors](syntax/Executioner/Predictor/index.md)
- Additional utilities for the functor system were added, such as to create a functor
  that is a gradient of another functor.
