# MOOSE Newsletter (August 2022)

!alert! construction title=In Progress
This MOOSE Newsletter edition is in progress. Please check back in September 2022
for a complete description of all MOOSE changes.
!alert-end!

## MOOSE Improvements

### HIT format and parser performance improvements

The parsing performance of the HIT (hierarchial input text) file parser - the component that parses
MOOSE input files and test spec files - has been substantially improved. The parsing time now scales
linearly with the input file length, where it previously had a square dependence. This was mostly
noticable in extremely long input files (e.g. files generated by scripts). As an additional feature the
parser now tracks the column position of each parsed token.

The `hit format` functionality was improved to better handle the formatting of long and multi line
strings. Multiline string can occur in input files when data and parameter entries
need to be represented in a particular way - for example, as data tables for `PiecewiseLinear`
functions. `hit format` handled such strings poorly and disrupted careful manual formatting into
columns, reducing the input file readability. To alleviate this, two major changes were made:

1. Single quoted strings `'...'` will stay completely untouched by `hit format`. This is useful to preserve long strings, such as PETSc options in the Executioner block, which come as parameter pairs that are often manually formatted to have corresponding key value pairs aligned to the same column positions.
2. Double quoted `"..."` strings will get formatted in the following two ways:
    - Single line strings get reflowed according to a set maximum line length (useful for long text in test spec requirements)
    - Multiline strings will only be re-indented through inserting or removing spaces on the lines following the first line, to match any changes in indentation of the first line.

These changes to `hit format` are already incorporated in the [Moose Language Support VSCode Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=DanielSchwen.moose-language-support).

## libMesh-level Changes

## PETSc-level Changes

## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements
