# MOOSE Newsletter (May 2022)

!alert! construction title=In Progress
This MOOSE Newsletter edition is in progress. Please check back in June 2022
for a complete description of all MOOSE changes.
!alert-end!

## MOOSE Improvements

- The component [HeatStructure2DCoupler.md] was added to the
  [Thermal hydraulics module](modules/thermal_hydraulics/index.md), which allows
  2D heat structures to be coupled via a heat heat transfer coefficient between
  two coincident boundaries.

## libMesh-level Changes

### `2022.05.06` Update

- More internal memory management uses smart pointers rather than raw
  `new` and `delete`
- `MeshBase`, `ExodusII`, and mesh stitching now support element sets
  (which unlike subdomains specified with `subdomain_id`, can overlap)
- Mesh stitching is now possible (via automatically temporarily
  serializing) a `DistributedMesh`.  This is useful when building a
  smaller mesh in serial but distributing it before it gets enlarged
  by refinement or extrusion.
- Triangulation improvements:
  - Support for specifying a fixed level of uniform refinement on each
    outer and/or hole boundary, then optionally disallowing further refinement
  - Mesh holes can be specified using other Mesh objects, for easier
    stitching later.
- `Abaqus` mesh file input now supports `TRI6` and `QUAD8` elements
- Support for more than 65,535 variables in a `System`
- `Node` and `Elem` `packed_range` code now always unpacks to a mesh
  - This enables use of the more-efficient NBX communication
    algorithms, the `push_` and `pull_` `parallel_vector_data` methods
    in `timpi/parallel_sync.h`, with ranges of nodes and elements
- Improvements to `reduced_basis` code
- Various bug fixes and interface updates
  - Updating deprecated `ExodusII` API uses
  - Compatibility with `PETSc` 3.17
  - Fix Eigen use of C++17-deprecated call

- MetaPhysicL updates, for additional unit testing, better
  compatibility with some compilers and compiler warning settings, and
  support for `std::isinf()`.

### `2022.05.27` Update

- Even more internal smart pointers.  This includes changes to the
  `Parameters` class that may require downstream changes to match;
  compatibility in Moose itself has already been fixed.
- When trying to combine a low-order `Elem` with an incompatibly
  higher order `FE` type, the mistake is now always reported with
  comprehensible error message, even in non-debugging-mode builds.
- When a parsed function is used and the parser returns an error, we
  now check and report details even in non-debugging-mode builds, and
  we print the failing parsed expression.
- The last use of C++17-deprecated std::iterator has been fixed;
  a few compilers outside CI were giving us warnings about it.
- We put support for input meshes that themselves have holes into
  MeshedHole, so you can mesh with holes while your hole has holes.
- Bug fixes for some triangulator use cases.
- Support for Laplace mesh smoothing of an unpartitioned mesh.
- Compatibility fixes for some `PETSc` 3.17 configurations.

- MetaPhysicL updates, for evaluating `pow(negative DualNumber,
  integer)` operations without throwing floating point exceptions,
  and also evaluating binary functions faster in general when mixing
  DualNumber and non-DualNumber parameter types.


## PETSc-level Changes

## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements
