# MOOSE Newsletter (September 2022)

## MOOSE Improvements

### New Mesh Generators

With the new [PolyLineMeshGenerator.md], a set of user points can be
connected into a mesh (either an open-ended polyline or a closed loop)
of `Edge2` elements.

Starting with an edge loop in the X-Y plane (or with the boundary of
a different 2D mesh) to define an outer boundary, and optionally
adding holes defined by other edge loops and/or 2D meshes, the new
[XYDelaunayGenerator.md] can generate a triangle mesh inside the
defined domain.  User options allow for uniform (or as-needed)
refinement of external and internal boundaries, and uniform or
spatially-varying bounds on internal triangle sizes.  A simple
Laplacian mesh smoothing option exists to improve the resulting
triangulation shape quality.  Each hole can be left empty or can be
stitched to the input mesh which was used to define it.  This
generator can be used recursively, so holes within holes can be used
to define layered internal boundaries.

## libMesh-level Changes

### `2022.09.09` Update

- Performance logging via `PerfLog` has been added to more of the
  `ExodusII` interface.
- The `Parameters` class `print_helper()` has been overloaded to
  handle nested vector-of-vectors-of-vectors parameters, so
  `Parameter<T>::print()` can now operate with that type as `T`.
- `ExodusII::write_added_sides()` support, which can be turned on to
  automatically generate "side elements" in output, useful for
  visualization of `SIDE_DISCONTINUOUS` data fields which are
  discontinuous on true elements' edges and vertices.
- Overloads for `TypeTensor` and `TypeVector` classes in the
  template metafunctions `RawType` and `ReplaceAlgebraicType`.
- A new `TensorTraits` class, for easier writing of generic algorithms
  that can handle scalar, vector, and tensor classes.
- Code refactoring and bug fixes, including

  - Fixed preconditioner reuse in the `PetscNonlinearSolver`
    interface when combined with Adaptive Mesh Refinement
  - Fixed the `Poly2TriTriangulator` refinement code behavior when
    it is told not to refine at all.
  - Fixed `MeshedHole` boundary orientation issues, thereby fixing a
    bug when `Poly2TriTriangulator` is required to refine a hole
    boundary initially defined by another mesh.
  - Fixed fragile `SIDE_DISCONTINUOUS` behavior when combined with
    other variable types on a `HEX27`.

- More test coverage
