# Step 1 - First steps

Let's get started with a minimal input file.

!listing modules/solid_mechanics/tutorials/introduction/mech_step01.i

## Input file

### `GlobalParams`

In the `[GlobalParams]` we set a default value for the `displacements`
parameters. That way we do not have to specify it explicitly in the multiple
blocks below that all need this parameter set.

### `Mesh`

We create a simple regular orthogonal mesh block using the
[`GeneratedMeshGenerator`](GeneratedMeshGenerator.md). All subblocks under
`[Mesh]` are the so called [*MeshGenerators*](meshgenerators/MeshGenerator.md).
They can be chained together and MOOSE provides a multitude of generators to
create and modify meshes. Later on we will see how to create a second block and
combine it into a two block mesh. A commonly used MeshGenerator is the
[`FileMeshGenerator`](FileMeshGenerator.md), it is used to load a mesh file
generated by third party software like Cubit of Gmsh (or sometimes even meshes
generated by MOOSE). MOOSE provides a shorthand for the `FileMeshGenerator`
through the [!param](/Mesh/FileMesh/file) parameter inside `[Mesh]`, e.g.

```
[Mesh]
  file = pressure_vessel.e
[]
```

MOOSE supports a [variety of mesh file formats](FileMeshGenerator.md); most
commonly used is the Exodus format.

### SolidMechanics QuasiStatic Physics

The third top level block has a path with three components in the title. You can
think of the MOOSE input file block structure like a directory.
[The QuasiStatic Physics](Physics/SolidMechanics/QuasiStatic/index.md)
is nested under `Modules` and `SolidMechanics`. A MOOSE Action is a convenience
object that can setup multiple aspects of a simulation for the user, resulting
in a more compact syntax. Actions can also enforce consistency in the simulation
definition. In this simple example the action will create the displacement
variables (as specified by the `GlobalParams/displacements` parameter). The
action will automatically determine if second order shape functions are needed,
based on the order of the mesh in the simulation (this works with any kind of
mesh, whether it is generated by MOOSE or read in from a file).

Furthermore the appropriate *strain calculator* will be added for the chosen
coordinate system (axisymmetric, spherical, Cartesian).

Check the [quasi-static physics documentation](Physics/SolidMechanics/QuasiStatic/index.md)
for a full run-down of all objects it creates.

### `Materials`

The two subblocks under [`[Materials]`](Materials/index.md) define an
[isotropic elasticity tensor](ComputeIsotropicElasticityTensor.md) and a
[linear elastic stress calculator](ComputeLinearElasticStress.md). Neither
object is block restricted (using the `block` parameter), so they apply to the
entire simulation domain.

### `Executioner`

In the [`[Executioner]`](Executioner/index.md) block all parameters relevant to the solution of the current
problem are set. [`type = Transient`](Transient.md) selects a time-dependent simulation (as
opposed to [`type = Steady`](Steady.md)). We chose to run for five simulation steps; with a
timestep of `1`.

### `Outputs`

We use the `exodus = true` shorthand to setup an output object of type `Exodus` to write
an Exodus mesh and solution file to the disk. You can visualize these outputs using
[Paraview](https://www.paraview.org).

## Questions

### Units

A question that comes up often is "What units does MOOSE use?".

>  Look through the input file and try to identify places where units might be
>  relevant.

[Click here for the answer.](solid_mechanics/tutorials/introduction/answer01a.md)

### Expected outcome

> Before you run this first input file take a moment to think about what you
> expect to happen.

[Click here for the answer.](solid_mechanics/tutorials/introduction/answer01b.md)

Once you've answered the questions and run the first example it is time to move
on to a slightly more complex scenario in [Step 2](solid_mechanics/tutorials/introduction/step02.md).
