# Advanced Meshing Tools

This section covers advanced meshing tools which are very useful for meshing geometries which are not regular Cartesian or hexagonal lattices.

## ParsedCurveGenerator

The [ParsedCurveGenerator.md] object generates a 3D curve mesh composed of EDGE2 elements which connect the series of points given by $x(t)$, $y(t)$, $z(t)$. This is useful when the user wants to construct a non-standard boundary and mesh inside of it.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/xyz_curve.png
       id=tutorial04-adv_parsedcurve
       caption=A 3D curve mesh connecting a series of points using [ParsedCurveGenerator.md].
       style=width:50%;display:block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;

!listing test/tests/meshgenerators/parsed_curve_generator/parsed_curve_3d.i
         id=tutorial04-parsed_curve_3d.i
         caption=3D curve mesh example.
         block=Mesh

## FillBetweenCurvesGenerator, FillBetweenPointVectorsGenerator, and FillBetweenSidesetsGenerator

Several mesh generators are available to the user to generate a "transition layer" between two curves using linear triangle elements (TRI3). Behind the scenes, these mesh generators use MOOSE's [FillBetweenPointVectorsTools](FillBetweenPointVectorsTools.md) capability to generate a "transition layer" between two given curves (in the form of two vectors of points).

!media framework/utils/transition_layer.png
       id=tutorial04-adv_fbpvt
       caption=A schematic drawing showing the fundamental functionality of connecting two curves with a transition layer.
       style=width:50%;display:block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;

### FillBetweenCurvesGenerator

The [FillBetweenCurvesGenerator.md] object is designed to generate a transition layer to connect two boundaries of two input meshes. The user provides two 1D meshes (curves) which should be connected to each other with transition layers.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/fill_between_curves.png
       id=tutorial04-adv_fillbetweencurves
       caption=[FillBetweenCurvesGenerator.md] connects a logarithmic curve (top left) and circular curve (bottom right) with a transition layer.
       style=width:50%;display:block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;

### FillBetweenSidesetsGenerator

The [FillBetweenSidesetsGenerator.md] object is designed to generate a transition layer to connect two boundaries of two input meshes. The user provides two 2D input meshes with sidesets. These sidesets specify which boundaries of each mesh should be connected to the other mesh with a transitional layer.

!media framework/meshgenerators/transition_layer_stitched.png
       id=tutorial04-adv_fillbetweensidesets
       caption=An illustration of [FillBetweenSidesetsGenerator.md] to connect two square meshes together by meshing the area between them.
       style=width:50%;display:block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;

### FillBetweenPointVectorsGenerator

This [FillBetweenPointVectorsGenerator.md] object generates a transition layer between two point vectors with different numbers of nodes. The user should provide two vectors of points as well as the number of layers of elements to create between the two vectors.

!media framework/meshgenerators/transition_layer_examples.png
       id=tutorial04-adv_fillbetweenpointvectors
       caption=An illustration of different transition layer meshes that can be generated between two arc boundaries using [FillBetweenPointVectorsGenerator.md].
       style=width:50%;display:block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;

## XYDelaunayGenerator

[XYDelaunayGenerator.md] creates an unstructured mesh consisting of TRI3 elements based on a given external boundary and, optionally, a series of internal hole meshes.

!media framework/meshgenerators/poly2tri_with_holes.png
       id=tutorial04-adv_xydg
       caption=An example mesh generated by [XYDelaunayGenerator.md] using a quadrilateral external boundary and two square holes.
       style=width:50%;display:block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;

!listing test/tests/meshgenerators/xy_delaunay_generator/xydelaunay_with_holes.i
         id=tutorial04-xydelaunay_with_holes
         caption=Example of [XYDelaunayGenerator.md] with holes.
         block=Mesh

[XYDelaunayGenerator.md] is extremely powerful when combined with [ParsedCurveGenerator.md] and other Reactor module objects already described, as it can mesh very irregularly shaped regions.

!content pagination previous=tutorial04_meshing/step12_rgmb_hetero.md
                    next=tutorial04_meshing/step14_advanced_examples.md
