python/doc/content/python/MooseDocs/extensions/autolink.md, before:

# AutoLink Extension

The AutoLink extension provides cross-page automatic linking for markdown (*.md) files. This allows
pages, such as those on this site, to link to each other by partial name. In the case of shortcut
style links (see [/core.md#shortcut-link]), heading content may also be included automatically. [autolink-config] lists the available configuration options for the AutoLink extension.

!devel settings id=autolink-config caption=Configuration options for the AutoLink extension.
                module=MooseDocs.extensions.autolink object=AutoLinkExtension

## Automatic Links id=autolinks

In MooseDown, the link within traditional markdown link syntax (e.g., `[text](link)`) may be a markdown filename.
The name must be unique, but may be incomplete. The entire page hierarchy is searched and filenames
are compared using the python `str.endswith()` method. Thus, the supplied name is considered unique if only
one path from all possible paths ends with the supplied text, see [link-example].

!devel example id=link-example caption=Example automatic link to another markdown page.
[Core](core.md)

The syntax also supports HTML bookmark style links, as demonstrated in [link-bookmark-example].

!devel example id=link-bookmark-example
               caption=Example of automatic link to another markdown page that includes an HTML
                       bookmark.
[Core](core.md#shortcut-link)

Optional key-value pairs used to define the settings for automatic links can be specified like `[text](link key=value)`. A complete list of the available settings is given in [link-settings]. The `alternative` setting is particularly powerful and serves as a substitute for the originally linked file should it fail to be found. The input for this setting may be an HTML bookmark, a URL, or a markdown file plus bookmark combination (or just a file) as demonstrated in [alternative-link-example].

!devel! example id=alternative-link-example
                caption=Example uses of the `alternative` setting for automatic links when the original markdown file is not found in the available content.
[Bookmark](not_a_real_directory/not_a_real_file_name.md alternative=#source)

[URL](not_a_real_file_name.md alternative=https://www.google.com/)

[File and bookmark](not_a_real_file_name.md#not-a-real-bookmark alternative=core.md#shortcut-link)
!devel-end!

The `optional` and `exact` settings are similarly applied when handling alternative links to markdown files.

!devel settings module=MooseDocs.extensions.autolink
       object=PageLinkComponent
       id=link-settings
       caption=Available settings for automatic links. Note that the `language` setting has no effect unless the link is a [source file](#source).

!alert warning title=Try not to abuse alternative links.
The `alternative` setting should not be used as a means to circumvent potentially broken content configurations, but rather consciously under special circumstances. For example, its main purpose is to provide a fallback when developing sites designed with [multiple configurations](MooseDocs/config.md#multiconfigs) and cross-links between them, but expeditiously building only one of those configurations such that certain content is only conditionally unavailable.

<!--TODO: The above alert should include a link to the appropriate multiconfigs documentation when it becomes available. See #18137-->

## Automatic Link Shortcuts

Markdown includes syntax for creating shortcuts (see [core.md#shortcut-link]). In MooseDown,
these are deemed "shortcut links." The AutoLink extension allows for markdown filenames to be used
within a shortcut link. In this case, the text from the first heading is used as the link text as
in [example-shortcut-link].

!devel example id=example-shortcut-link
               caption=Example of a shortcut link that contains a markdown filename.
[core.md]

It is also possible to include HTML style bookmarks with the filename. Depending on the configuration
(see [autolink-config]), the link text will include the name of the text within the bookmark and
optionally the page heading, see [example-shortcut-bookmark-link].

!devel example id=example-shortcut-bookmark-link
               caption=Example of a shortcut link that contains a markdown file including an HTML
                       style bookmark.
[core.md#shortcut-link]

A complete list of the available settings for automatic link shortcuts is given in [shortcut-link-settings]. Notice that the `alternative` setting is available and its use is demonstrated in [example-shortcut-alternative-link].

!devel! example id=example-shortcut-alternative-link
                caption=Example uses of the `alternative` setting for automatic shortcut links when the original markdown file is not found in the available content.
[not_a_real_file_name.md alternative=#autolinks]

[not_a_real_file_name.md alternative=core.md]
!devel-end!

Note that explicit URLs like `https://www.google.com/` are not supported for automatic shortcut link alternatives, and MooseDocs will log an error if such an attempt is made.

!devel settings module=MooseDocs.extensions.autolink
       object=PageShortcutLinkComponent
       id=shortcut-link-settings
       caption=Available settings for automatic link shortcuts. Note that the `language` setting has no effect unless the link is a [source file](#source).

!alert note title=Applicable settings
The `alternative`, `optional`, and `exact` settings given in both [link-settings] and [shortcut-link-settings] have no effect when the link is a local bookmark, e.g., `[#bookmark]`, nor when it is a [source link](#source). Furthermore, the `language` setting is only applicable to source links.

## Automatic Source Content id=source

If a filename is used within a link or shortcut link and the file is contained in the git repository
a bottom extending modal window will be created that displays the complete text, as shown in
[example-file-link].

!devel! example id=example-file-link
                caption=Example showing source code links to modal windows with complete source code.
[/Diffusion.C]

[Diffusion Kernel](/Diffusion.C)
!devel-end!

Similar to the [python/MooseDocs/extensions/listing.md], the optional `language` setting can be used to specify the coding language to use for syntax highlighting as demonstrated in [example-file-link-language].

!devel! example id=example-file-link-language
                caption=Example showing source code link that sets the language to use for syntax highlighting.
[`run_tests`](/test/run_tests language=python)
!devel-end!

Commit message:

Add content about explicit key linking
Refs #24412

python/doc/content/python/MooseDocs/extensions/autolink.md, after:

# AutoLink Extension

The AutoLink extension provides cross-page automatic linking for markdown (*.md) files. This allows
pages, such as those on this site, to link to each other by partial name. In the case of shortcut
style links (see [/core.md#shortcut-link]), heading content may also be included automatically. [autolink-config] lists the available configuration options for the AutoLink extension.

!devel settings id=autolink-config caption=Configuration options for the AutoLink extension.
                module=MooseDocs.extensions.autolink object=AutoLinkExtension

## Automatic Links id=autolinks

In MooseDown, the link within traditional markdown link syntax (e.g., `[text](link)`) may be a markdown filename.
The name must be unique, but may be incomplete. The entire page hierarchy is searched and filenames
are compared using the python `str.endswith()` method. Thus, the supplied name is considered unique if only
one path from all possible paths ends with the supplied text, see [link-example].

!devel example id=link-example caption=Example automatic link to another markdown page.
[Core](core.md)

The syntax also supports HTML bookmark style links, as demonstrated in [link-bookmark-example].

!devel example id=link-bookmark-example
               caption=Example of automatic link to another markdown page that includes an HTML
                       bookmark.
[Core](core.md#shortcut-link)

<!--TODO: This should be reworded once explicit linking is the default in #24406-->

By default, implicit linking to other content that is outside of the root directory of the content in which the link is found
is allowed. This default is slated to change in the future and is controlled by the `explicit` config option in this extension.
Explicit linking across content root directories is achieved by appending `key:` as a prefix to the link, where said key is the
key used in the `Content` entry in the configuration.

Optional key-value pairs used to define the settings for automatic links can be specified like `[text](link key=value)`. A complete list of the available settings is given in [link-settings]. The `alternative` setting is particularly powerful and serves as a substitute for the originally linked file should it fail to be found. The input for this setting may be an HTML bookmark, a URL, or a markdown file plus bookmark combination (or just a file) as demonstrated in [alternative-link-example].

!devel! example id=alternative-link-example
                caption=Example uses of the `alternative` setting for automatic links when the original markdown file is not found in the available content.
[Bookmark](not_a_real_directory/not_a_real_file_name.md alternative=#source)

[URL](not_a_real_file_name.md alternative=https://www.google.com/)

[File and bookmark](not_a_real_file_name.md#not-a-real-bookmark alternative=core.md#shortcut-link)
!devel-end!

The `optional` and `exact` settings are similarly applied when handling alternative links to markdown files.

!devel settings module=MooseDocs.extensions.autolink
       object=PageLinkComponent
       id=link-settings
       caption=Available settings for automatic links. Note that the `language` setting has no effect unless the link is a [source file](#source).

!alert warning title=Try not to abuse alternative links.
The `alternative` setting should not be used as a means to circumvent potentially broken content configurations, but rather consciously under special circumstances. For example, its main purpose is to provide a fallback when developing sites designed with [multiple configurations](MooseDocs/config.md#multiconfigs) and cross-links between them, but expeditiously building only one of those configurations such that certain content is only conditionally unavailable.

<!--TODO: The above alert should include a link to the appropriate multiconfigs documentation when it becomes available. See #18137-->

## Automatic Link Shortcuts

Markdown includes syntax for creating shortcuts (see [core.md#shortcut-link]). In MooseDown,
these are deemed "shortcut links." The AutoLink extension allows for markdown filenames to be used
within a shortcut link. In this case, the text from the first heading is used as the link text as
in [example-shortcut-link].

!devel example id=example-shortcut-link
               caption=Example of a shortcut link that contains a markdown filename.
[core.md]

It is also possible to include HTML style bookmarks with the filename. Depending on the configuration
(see [autolink-config]), the link text will include the name of the text within the bookmark and
optionally the page heading, see [example-shortcut-bookmark-link].

!devel example id=example-shortcut-bookmark-link
               caption=Example of a shortcut link that contains a markdown file including an HTML
                       style bookmark.
[core.md#shortcut-link]

A complete list of the available settings for automatic link shortcuts is given in [shortcut-link-settings]. Notice that the `alternative` setting is available and its use is demonstrated in [example-shortcut-alternative-link].

!devel! example id=example-shortcut-alternative-link
                caption=Example uses of the `alternative` setting for automatic shortcut links when the original markdown file is not found in the available content.
[not_a_real_file_name.md alternative=#autolinks]

[not_a_real_file_name.md alternative=core.md]
!devel-end!

Note that explicit URLs like `https://www.google.com/` are not supported for automatic shortcut link alternatives, and MooseDocs will log an error if such an attempt is made.

!devel settings module=MooseDocs.extensions.autolink
       object=PageShortcutLinkComponent
       id=shortcut-link-settings
       caption=Available settings for automatic link shortcuts. Note that the `language` setting has no effect unless the link is a [source file](#source).

!alert note title=Applicable settings
The `alternative`, `optional`, and `exact` settings given in both [link-settings] and [shortcut-link-settings] have no effect when the link is a local bookmark, e.g., `[#bookmark]`, nor when it is a [source link](#source). Furthermore, the `language` setting is only applicable to source links.

## Automatic Source Content id=source

If a filename is used within a link or shortcut link and the file is contained in the git repository
a bottom extending modal window will be created that displays the complete text, as shown in
[example-file-link].

!devel! example id=example-file-link
                caption=Example showing source code links to modal windows with complete source code.
[/Diffusion.C]

[Diffusion Kernel](/Diffusion.C)
!devel-end!

Similar to the [python/MooseDocs/extensions/listing.md], the optional `language` setting can be used to specify the coding language to use for syntax highlighting as demonstrated in [example-file-link-language].

!devel! example id=example-file-link-language
                caption=Example showing source code link that sets the language to use for syntax highlighting.
[`run_tests`](/test/run_tests language=python)
!devel-end!
