# SCM model for the Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) 19-pin benchmark

*Contact: Mauricio Tano, mauricio.tanoretamales.at.inl.gov*

## Benchmark description

The ORNL 19-pin experiment was built at Oak Ridge National Laboratory for studying the thermal-hydraulic flow characterisitics in SFRs assemblies as described in [!citep](fontana74).
The cross section of the experimental facility is depicted in [configuration].
The validation exercise was done for test series 2 of this experiment.
In this series, the fuel rods of the experiment were heated by 19 identical electric cartridges.
The configuration and external heat fluxes of this cartidges matches typical values expected for SFRs.
The measurements in test series 2 focused on the distribution of temperatures at the exit of the fuel assembly, the duct walls, and the rod bundle.
The nature of the heat source and the lack of neighboring assemblies make the distribution of temperatures at the rod bundle and duct atypical for LMRs.
Therefore, this data was deemed of secondary importance for validating the SCM.
In contrast, the distribution of temperatures at the exit of the fuel assembly is indicative of the heating of the coolant and flow mixing in the fuel bundle, which is expected to be representative of the one in an actual SFR.
Therefore, we have focused our validation work in predicting the distribution of temperatures at the exit of the fuel assembly.

!media figures/ORNL_19_configuration.png
       style=width:60%;margin-bottom:2%;margin:auto;
       id=configuration
       caption=Left: heating rod positions for the experiment. Right: subchannel positions in the experiement.

The design parameters for the test series 2 of the ORNL 19-pin experiment are presented in [parameters].
Pressure is assumed to be constant at the outlet of the assembly and temperature and mass flux to be constant at its inlet.
The fuel bundle is divided between inlet, heated, and outlet sections along the rod in increasing elevation.
A nonzero linear heat rate is only assigned to the heated part of the rod, while no power is imposed at the inlet and outlet sections.

!table id=parameters caption=Design and operational parameters for ORNL's 19-pin benchmark.
| Experiment Parameter (unit) | Value  |
| :- | :- |
| Number of pins (-) | $19$ |
| Rod Pitch (cm) | $0.726$ |
| Rod Diameter (cm) | $0.584$ |
| Wire wrap diameter (cm) | $0.142$ |
| Wire wrap axial pitch (cm) | $30.48$ |
| Flat-to-flat duct distance (cm) | $3.41$ |
| Inlet length (cm) | $40.64$ |
| Heated length (cm) | $53.34$ |
| Outlet length (cm) | $7.62$ |
| Outlet pressure (Pa) | $1.01 * 10^5$ |
| Inlet Temperature (K) | $588.5$ |
| Power profile (-) | Uniform |

Due to hexagonal symmetry in the experiment, the temperature distribution has been measured over the subchannels that approximately lie on a the diagonal line that connects the opposed vertices in the duct.
The orientation of the meassuring line connects the south-west vertex to the north-east one.
For our numbering convention, this lines includes subchannels 37, 36, 20, 10, 4, 1, 12, and 28.

Three different flow and heating configuration were evaluated for the experiment validation.
These configurations are summarized in [cases].

!table id=cases caption=Validation cases selected in the ORNL benchmark
| Naming | Run ID | Rod Power (W/cm) | Flow rate (m$^3$/s) | Reynolds number |
| :- | :- | :- | :- | :- |
| High flow rate | $022472-hf$ | $318.2$ | $3.47*10^{-3}$ | $6.72*10^4$ |
| Medium flow rate | $020372$ | $30.8$ | $3.15*10^{-4}$ | $7.35*10^3$ |
| Low flow rate | $022472-lf$ | $4.9$  | $4.67*10^{-5}$ | $9.05*10^2$ |

## SCM input

### General parameters

The general parameters on the experimental conditions are described here below.
They set up the boundary conditions for the high-flow-rate test case.

```language=bash

 T_in = 588.5
 flow_area = 0.0004980799633447909 #m2
 mass_flux_in = ${fparse 55*3.78541/10/60/flow_area}  # [1e+6 kg/m^2-hour] turns into kg/m^2-sec
 P_out = 2.0e5 # Pa

```

### Mesh

The meshing in SCM uses a custom *TriSubChannelMeshGenerator*.
This one generates a mesh of 1D channel segments connected in 3D.
The subchannel positions are automatically generated by specifying the number of radial rings, the flat to flat distance of the duct, and the rod pitch.
The number of axial cells in which the domain is discretrized is specified by *n_cells*.
For more information about the mesh generator, pelase consult the website documentation on SCM.

!listing /examples/ORNL_19/ORNL_19.i block=TriSubChannelMesh language=cpp

### Variables

This block defines the subchannel variables for the SCM solve. This block is not necessary for the solver to run.

!listing /examples/ORNL_19/ORNL_19.i block=AuxVariables language=cpp

### FluidProperties

The FluidProperties block specifies the thermophysical properties used in the SCM solve.
Sodium properties are used in this case.

!listing /examples/ORNL_19/ORNL_19.i block=FluidProperties language=cpp

### Problem

The problem type specifies the solver to be used in the SCM solve.
The type of problem used in this case is a liquid metal subchannel problem that uses sodium fluid properties.
The parameters *beta* and *C_T* are used are used to model the crossflow and cross enthalpy-fluxes.
Different solve procedures can be applied.
In this case, we use an explicit, segragated solve.
For more information about the mesh generator, pelase consult the website documentation on SCM.

!listing /examples/ORNL_19/ORNL_19.i block=Problem language=cpp

### Initial Conditions

This block specifies the initial conditions for the *AuxVariables* utilized in the SCM solve.
The linear heat flux initialization requires an external file that defines the relative power per fuel pin.
In this case, this file is name "pin_power_profile_19.txt"

!listing /examples/ORNL_19/ORNL_19.i block=ICs language=cpp

### Auxiliary Kernels

Auxiliary kernels are used ton apply the boundary conditions on pressure, temperature, and mass flow rate.

!listing /examples/ORNL_19/ORNL_19.i block=AuxKernels language=cpp

### Executioner

The executioner can be *Steady* or *Transient*.
The tolerances are not really used in the SCM problem.

!listing /examples/ORNL_19/ORNL_19.i block=Executioner language=cpp

### MultiApp system

A *MultiApp* is used for transfering the SCM solution into a detailed mesh.

!listing /examples/ORNL_19/ORNL_19.i block=MultiApps language=cpp

A custom transfer, *MultiAppDetailedSolutionTransfer*, is used for this purpose.

!listing /examples/ORNL_19/ORNL_19.i block=Transfers language=cpp

The detailed mesh uses a *DetailedTriSubChannelMeshGenerator* and the solution variables are populated by the transfer.

!listing /examples/ORNL_19/ORNL_19.i language=cpp

## Results

The key factor dominating the temperature profile in the outlet of the domain is the competing effect between heat convection and heat conduction in the coolant.
An example of the axial and lateral mass flow rates and the temperature and viscosity fields obtained for a high-flow-rate configuration in the ORNL 19-pin benchmark is presented in [3dres].
The flow rapidly develops over the assembly.
However, there is a significantly larger flow field in the outer gaps of the rod bundle.
This results in the outer rod and channels being colder than the center ones.
The temperature difference between outlet and inner subchannels increases with the increasing mass flow rate.
There is a small competing effect due to the viscosity in the center of the channels being smaller due to heating, but this effect is of second order compared with the flow driven by the pressure drop effects.
However, as mass flow decreases, heat conduction in the sodium coolant starts dominating over heat convection and, hence, the temperature profiles become flatter at the exit.
In summary, the temperature distribution measured at the outlet of the assembly can be regulated by the balance between convection and conduction, which is experimentally regulated by changing the axial mass flux and the power at the rod bundles.

!media figures/ORNL_19_results_3D.png
       style=width:60%;margin-bottom:2%;margin:auto;
       id=3dres
       caption=Example of simulation results for the high-flow test case in the ORNL-19 benchmark. (a) Distribution of axial mass flow. (b) Distribution of lateral mass flow. (c) Distribution of temperature. (d) Distribution of dynamic viscosity due to heating.

The results obtained are compared against the experimental values and the SUBAC and MATRA-LMR codes in [plots].
It is observed, that for every single case our code predicts temperature distribution values that matches more closely the experimental results.

!media figures/ORNL_19_results_plots.png
       style=width:60%;margin-bottom:2%;margin:auto;
       id=plots
       caption=Comparison of results obtained for ORNL-19 pin case between experimental measurements, the SUBAC code, the MATRA-LMR code, and the current code. (a) High mass flow case. (b) Medium mass flow case. (c) Low mass flow case
