modules/fluid_properties/doc/content/source/userobjects/TemperaturePressureFunctionFluidProperties.md, before:

# TemperaturePressureFunctionFluidProperties

Fluid properties provided as multiple-variable  functions of temperature, pressure that are parameterized
in time, where $t$ is used to indicate temperature and &p& is used to indicate pressure.
This source is made so it is allowed to take in both specific volume, internal energy formulations
and temperature, pressure formulations. The Density, Viscosity and thermal conductivity time derivative
are found by taking the gradient by using pressure and temperature as inputs.

!alert note The range of validity is based off of the validity of the functions
that are input

!alert note The derivative of density do not carry derivative information for automatic differentiation

## Example Input File Syntax

!listing modules/fluid_properties/test/tests/temperture_pressure_function/constant.i block=Modules

!syntax parameters /Modules/FluidProperties/TemperaturePressureFunctionFluidProperties

!syntax inputs /Modules/FluidProperties/TemperaturePressureFunctionFluidProperties

!syntax children /Modules/FluidProperties/TemperaturePressureFunctionFluidProperties

Commit message:

Add limitations for cp computation in documentation Rework documentation so it actually makes sense Straight up say we dont support the conservative variables because we are missing too many routines refs #21505

modules/fluid_properties/doc/content/source/userobjects/TemperaturePressureFunctionFluidProperties.md, after:

# TemperaturePressureFunctionFluidProperties

!syntax description /FluidProperties/TemperaturePressureFunctionFluidProperties

The derivatives of the fluid properties are obtained using the `Function`(s) gradient components
and the appropriate derivative chaining for derived properties.

!alert warning
The range of validity of the property is based off of the validity of the functions
that are input, and is not checked by this `FluidProperties` object.

!alert note
Support for the conservative (specific volume, internal energy) variable set is only
partial. Notable missing implementations are routines for entropy, the speed of sound, and some
conversions between specific enthalpy and specific energy.

!alert warning
Due to the approximations made when computing the isobaric heat capacity from the constant
isochoric heat capacity, this material should only be used for nearly-incompressible fluids.

## Example Input File Syntax

!listing modules/fluid_properties/test/tests/temperture_pressure_function/constant.i block=Modules

!syntax parameters /FluidProperties/TemperaturePressureFunctionFluidProperties

!syntax inputs /FluidProperties/TemperaturePressureFunctionFluidProperties

!syntax children /FluidProperties/TemperaturePressureFunctionFluidProperties
