modules/tensor_mechanics/doc/content/source/materials/abaqus/AbaqusUMATStress.md, before:

# Abaqus UMAT Stress

!syntax description /Materials/AbaqusUMATStress

## Description

`AbaqusUMATStress` provides an interface for using _Abaqus UMAT_
functions as constitutive models in MOOSE.

## UMAT User subroutine interface

UMAT functions are commonly coded in Fortran, are located in the
`$(APPLICATION_DIR)/plugins` and `$(APPLICATION_DIR)/test/plugins` directories,
and are automatically compiled by the MOOSE build system.

A UMAT file `my_umat.f` can be loaded by the `AbaqusUMATStress` by providing the
the full path and filename without an extension via the
[!param](/Materials/AbaqusUMATStress/plugin) parameter in the MOOSE input file.

A valid UMAT subroutine has the following call signature

```
SUBROUTINE UMAT(STRESS,STATEV,DDSDDE,SSE,SPD,SCD,
     1 RPL,DDSDDT,DRPLDE,DRPLDT,
     2 STRAN,DSTRAN,TIME,DTIME,TEMP,DTEMP,PREDEF,DPRED,CMNAME,
     3 NDI,NSHR,NTENS,NSTATV,PROPS,NPROPS,COORDS,DROT,PNEWDT,
     4 CELENTCELENT,DFGRD0,DFGRD1,NOEL,NPT,LAYER,KSPT,KSTEP,KINC)
C
      CHARACTER*80 CMNAME
      DIMENSION STRESS(NTENS),STATEV(NSTATV),
     1 DDSDDE(NTENS,NTENS),DDSDDT(NTENS),DRPLDE(NTENS),
     2 STRAN(NTENS),DSTRAN(NTENS),TIME(2),PREDEF(1),DPRED(1),
     3 PROPS(NPROPS),COORDS(3),DROT(3,3),DFGRD0(3,3),DFGRD1(3,3)


      user coding to define DDSDDE, STRESS, STATEV, SSE, SPD, SCD
      and, if necessary, RPL, DDSDDT, DRPLDE, DRPLDT, PNEWDT


      RETURN
      END
```

A description of the input and output parameters of the UMAT user subroutines
can be found in the Abaqus user manual.

Note that the UMAT standard uses 1-based indexing for `NOEL` (element number)
and `NPT` (integration point number), while MOOSE uses 0-based indexing
internally. We therefore add one to the element and integration point numbers
from MOOSE before passing them to the UMAT.

## UMAT Time step control

Time step control within the UMAT subroutine is used together with MOOSE's
general capabilities to control time steps based on material behavior. `PNEWDT`
denotes a factor that can be modified in the UMAT routine to be less than one,
to signal a cut in the time step, or more than one, to signal a local increment
in the time step. Since these time step controls are local to the quadrature
point, MOOSE provides a layer of objects to handle the information provided by
UMAT's `PNEWDT`. First, we select a soft `Terminator` which will invalidate a
time step if the time step increment used turns out to be larger than a computed
maximum time step increment anywhere in the system:

!listing modules/tensor_mechanics/test/tests/umat/time_step/elastic_timestep.i block=UserObjects

As a second step, we select the time stepper controls for the entire finite
element system. These controls will apply to UMAT stepping as well as any other
kernel or object in the system:

!listing modules/tensor_mechanics/test/tests/umat/time_step/elastic_timestep.i block=Executioner/TimeStepper

The time step increment will be reduced as prescribed in the UMAT routine.
However, the maximum increment will be limited by the selection of
`growth_factor`. This avoids increasing the time step too much from one time
step to the next. To further rely on UMAT's `PNEWDT`, one can choose to select a
larger `growth_factor`.

A subroutine that acts on `PNEWDT` is chosen in the regression test:

!listing modules/tensor_mechanics/test/tests/umat/time_step/elastic_timestep.i block=Materials/umat

## UMAT Loading steps

When setting up an input file, it can be useful to organize it in terms of the loading and boundary
conditions that the structural component will undergo throughout the numerical simulation. For
example, a user may want to apply natural boundary conditions as a first step (Step 1), then apply
gradually a permanent or long-term load, e.g. the internal pressure in a vessel (Step 2). Finally,
other loads, such as those originated by wind, can be added to the existing step to obtain the
desired final numerical results (Step 3). In MOOSE, one can use the `Controls`[Ref needed] system to



## Example input file

!listing modules/tensor_mechanics/test/tests/umat/elastic_hardening/linear_strain_hardening.i block=Materials/constant

!syntax parameters /Materials/AbaqusUMATStress

!syntax inputs /Materials/AbaqusUMATStress

!syntax children /Materials/AbaqusUMATStress

!bibtex bibliography

Commit message:

Add loading step (STEP) concept to Tensor Mechanics (#19249)
This commit does a few things:

 - Add a time period control (StepPeriod) that's driven by loading steps
 - Add a general user object that generates steps based on simulation times
 - Make AbaqusUMATStress and AbaqusUExternalDB work with actual steps and pass
   the step number to user plugins.
 - Minor refactor of TimePeriod control in the framework

modules/tensor_mechanics/doc/content/source/materials/abaqus/AbaqusUMATStress.md, after:

# Abaqus UMAT Stress

!syntax description /Materials/AbaqusUMATStress

## Description

`AbaqusUMATStress` provides an interface for using _Abaqus UMAT_
functions as constitutive models in MOOSE.

## UMAT User subroutine interface

UMAT functions are commonly coded in Fortran, are located in the
`$(APPLICATION_DIR)/plugins` and `$(APPLICATION_DIR)/test/plugins` directories,
and are automatically compiled by the MOOSE build system.

A UMAT file `my_umat.f` can be loaded by the `AbaqusUMATStress` by providing the
the full path and filename without an extension via the
[!param](/Materials/AbaqusUMATStress/plugin) parameter in the MOOSE input file.

A valid UMAT subroutine has the following call signature

```
SUBROUTINE UMAT(STRESS,STATEV,DDSDDE,SSE,SPD,SCD,
     1 RPL,DDSDDT,DRPLDE,DRPLDT,
     2 STRAN,DSTRAN,TIME,DTIME,TEMP,DTEMP,PREDEF,DPRED,CMNAME,
     3 NDI,NSHR,NTENS,NSTATV,PROPS,NPROPS,COORDS,DROT,PNEWDT,
     4 CELENTCELENT,DFGRD0,DFGRD1,NOEL,NPT,LAYER,KSPT,KSTEP,KINC)
C
      CHARACTER*80 CMNAME
      DIMENSION STRESS(NTENS),STATEV(NSTATV),
     1 DDSDDE(NTENS,NTENS),DDSDDT(NTENS),DRPLDE(NTENS),
     2 STRAN(NTENS),DSTRAN(NTENS),TIME(2),PREDEF(1),DPRED(1),
     3 PROPS(NPROPS),COORDS(3),DROT(3,3),DFGRD0(3,3),DFGRD1(3,3)


      user coding to define DDSDDE, STRESS, STATEV, SSE, SPD, SCD
      and, if necessary, RPL, DDSDDT, DRPLDE, DRPLDT, PNEWDT


      RETURN
      END
```

A description of the input and output parameters of the UMAT user subroutines
can be found in the Abaqus user manual.

Note that the UMAT standard uses 1-based indexing for `NOEL` (element number)
and `NPT` (integration point number), while MOOSE uses 0-based indexing
internally. We therefore add one to the element and integration point numbers
from MOOSE before passing them to the UMAT.

## UMAT Time step control

Time step control within the UMAT subroutine is used together with MOOSE's
general capabilities to control time steps based on material behavior. `PNEWDT`
denotes a factor that can be modified in the UMAT routine to be less than one,
to signal a cut in the time step, or more than one, to signal a local increment
in the time step. Since these time step controls are local to the quadrature
point, MOOSE provides a layer of objects to handle the information provided by
UMAT's `PNEWDT`. First, we select a soft `Terminator` which will invalidate a
time step if the time step increment used turns out to be larger than a computed
maximum time step increment anywhere in the system:

!listing modules/tensor_mechanics/test/tests/umat/time_step/elastic_timestep.i block=UserObjects

As a second step, we select the time stepper controls for the entire finite
element system. These controls will apply to UMAT stepping as well as any other
kernel or object in the system:

!listing modules/tensor_mechanics/test/tests/umat/time_step/elastic_timestep.i block=Executioner/TimeStepper

The time step increment will be reduced as prescribed in the UMAT routine.
However, the maximum increment will be limited by the selection of
`growth_factor`. This avoids increasing the time step too much from one time
step to the next. To further rely on UMAT's `PNEWDT`, one can choose to select a
larger `growth_factor`.

A subroutine that acts on `PNEWDT` is chosen in the regression test:

!listing modules/tensor_mechanics/test/tests/umat/time_step/elastic_timestep.i block=Materials/umat

## UMAT Loading steps

When setting up an input file, it can be useful to organize it in terms of the loading and boundary
conditions that the structural component will undergo throughout the numerical simulation. For
example, a user may want to apply natural boundary conditions as a first step (Step 1), then apply
gradually a permanent or long-term load, e.g. the internal pressure in a vessel (Step 2). Finally,
other loads, such as those originated by wind, can be added to the existing step to obtain the
desired final numerical results (Step 3). For this case,
MOOSE steps need to be defined throughout the simulation in [StepUserObject](/StepUserObject.md). This user object can be passed to `AbaqusUMATStress` to inform the UMAT routine of the value of step time at the beginning of the current increment (TIME(1) with Fortran indexing).

An example of how to pass the user object in an input file is given below:

!listing modules/tensor_mechanics/test/tests/umat/steps/elastic_temperature_steps_uo.i block=Materials/umat

Note that the step capability is three-pronged: 1) It allows to pass the step number to the UMAT
routine via the present object, 2) It allows to pass the step number to the [AbaqusUExternalDB](/AbaqusUExternalDB.md) plugin, and 3) It allows to directly drive controls via step number in [StepPeriod](/StepPeriod.md).

## Example input file

!listing modules/tensor_mechanics/test/tests/umat/elastic_hardening/linear_strain_hardening.i block=Materials/constant

!syntax parameters /Materials/AbaqusUMATStress

!syntax inputs /Materials/AbaqusUMATStress

!syntax children /Materials/AbaqusUMATStress

!bibtex bibliography
