# MOOSE Newsletter (May 2021)

## Porous media incompressible flow capabilities

We added support for solving the porous flow incompressible Navier Stokes equations to the
`navier_stokes` module. These include mass, momentum and energy conservation for the fluid phase.
Some helpful additional kernels for the solid energy conservation equation, such as to handle the
time derivative and the heat convection terms, are also included.

## Weighted Gap Mortar Mechanical Contact Implementation

We have implemented a variationally consistent discretization scheme for the
zero-penetration mechanical contact constraints. Interested readers may refer to
the associated [issue](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/issues/16961) and
[pull request](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/pull/17189).

## Finite volume interface kernels

We have added interface kernels for finite volume physics. Some use cases for
these interface kernels are: enforcing solution continuity across an interface and
enforcing flux continuity when material properties must have different names on
different subdomains for ghosting reasons.

## Post-processors Usable in Initial Conditions

We added [/PostprocessorInterface.md] to initial conditions. Post-processor
values can now be retrieved using `getPostprocessorValue()` and `getPostprocessorValueByName()`,
and these post-processors will be executed before the initial condition as long
as their `execute_on` parameters include `INITIAL`.

## SQA Updates

We have updated the document governing our software quality practices. The changes have resulted
in a few more required SQA documents.

- [sqa/moose_sll.md]
- [sqa/framework_cci.md]
- [sqa/framework_scs.md]

## Proportional Integral Derivative controller

We added a Proportional Integral Derivative (PID) controller to the Control system. This is
helpful for basic tuning / optimization tasks, where some parameters of the simulation have
to evolve to match a target value.

## Nesting made easier in MeshGenerator subclasses

The new MeshGenerator::addMeshSubgenerator() API simplifies the
process of creating a C++ subclass of MeshGenerator with a constructor
which can instantiate other MeshGenerator classes as "subgenerators",
on the fly, specifying subgenerator arguments programmatically.  At
execution time the subgenerators are executed, respecting any required
dependency ordering, and the new subclass then has access to the
generated meshes (either from an ab initio generator or via a chain of
subgenerator) to further modify and/or combine to produce its own
generated mesh.

## libMesh-level changes

- The NEDELEC\_ONE vector-valued space now supports Tet10 elements
- Added accessors to easily get global sets of boundary or subdomain ids
- User vectors' parallel type is now stored, for more robust restarts
- MetaPhysicL types can now be compatibly nested in Eigen types
- Enabled std::move of data in TIMPI parallel\_sync.h push and pull
- Fixes for wider PETSc version compatibility
- Bugfix in Elem::is\_child\_on\_edge
- Memory leak fix in PetscMatrix::matrix\_matrix\_mult
- Configure option fix for --enable\_petsc\_required


## New Crystal Plasticity Base Class

We added a material-based version of the crystal plasticity stress update base class, i.e., [ComputeMultipleCrystalPlasticityStress](ComputeMultipleCrystalPlasticityStress.md) to facilitate the implementation of crystal plasticity constitutive laws. The advantages of the new base class lie in several aspects:

- *Modularity*, the base class is designed to be able to account for one or multiple crystal plastic deformation mechanism(s) at one time. Specifically, the new crystal plasticity base class allows for individual or combined deformation contributions from glide, twin, climb, etc.
- *Simplicity*, the new base class encapsulates the internal state variable calculations for one deformation mechanism in a single material class. Comparing to defining each internal state variable in a single UserObject (as required by [FiniteStrainUObasedCP](/FiniteStrainUObasedCP.md)), this new design greatly reduces the total number of classes that are needed in developing a specific constitutive relation
- *User Friendly*, the reduction of the number of material classes greatly simplifies the input file for the user
- *Robustness*, improved convergence is observed for several existing crystal plasticity models after converting to the new design

!alert note title=Deprecation of the FiniteStrainUObasedCP
We are actively converting all existing crystal plasticity models to [ComputeMultipleCrystalPlasticityStress](ComputeMultipleCrystalPlasticityStress.md) and adding new capabilities based on [ComputeMultipleCrystalPlasticityStress](ComputeMultipleCrystalPlasticityStress.md). The existing [FiniteStrainUObasedCP](/FiniteStrainUObasedCP.md) class will be deprecated in the foreseeable future. Therefore, we highly encourage developers and users to start the transition to the new crystal plasticity base class.


## Bug Fixes and Minor Improvements

- Increased documentation for the Navier Stokes module, and a few MOOSE postprocessors
  and auxiliary kernels
