# MOOSE Newsletter (October 2021)

## "moosetools" Repository Removed

The effort to extract the python tools from MOOSE into a more generic set of tools
has been halted. If the need for this effort changes it may be considered again
in the future.

## Support Ended for PETSc < 3.5

Support was [ended this month for PETSc versions older than 3.5](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/pull/19197),
and MOOSE code references corresponding to these prior versions have been removed from the framework.

## MOOSE Improvements and New Features

### Reactor Module

A new module called `Reactor` [has been introduced in MOOSE](reactor/index.md)
to enhance MOOSE's mesh generation capabilities for nuclear reactor designs,
specifically hexagonal pins, assemblies, and cores.

The currently available capability allows an analyst to build a hexagonal pin,
ducted assembly, and core using a series of new MeshGenerators. [SimpleHexagonGenerator.md]
quickly builds a homogenized hexagonal pin or assembly for coarse mesh representation.
[PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.md] builds heterogeneous pin cells with optional
ducts. This MeshGenerator is generalized for regular polygon pin cells with any
number of sides (3=triangle, 4=Cartesian, .. 6=hexagon). Azimuthal mesh discretization
may vary by polygon side. [PatternedHexMeshGenerator.md] patterns pin cells into an
assembly and optionally adds ducted regions. It can also be used to pattern assemblies
into a core. The capabilities in this module allows a reactor analyst to avoid the
use of external, licensed meshing tools and streamlines the workflow significantly
for MOOSE-based reactor physics analysis, lowering the barrier to entry for users.
Special attention was paid to allow the user to assign block names, IDs and external
boundary names and IDs if desired.

!row!
!col small=12 medium=6 large=6
!media poly_pin_cell.png
       style=margin:auto;width:70%;
       caption=Heterogeneous pin cell created with [PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.md]

!col small=12 medium=6 large=6
!media ducted_assembly.png
       style=margin:auto;width:70%;
       caption=Ducted assembly created with [PatternedHexMeshGenerator.md]
!row-end!

!media small_core.png
       style=margin:auto;width:40%;
       caption=Small core with pin-by-pin assemblies and two control drums created using [PatternedHexMeshGenerator.md] (with various input objects)

Additional functionality is forthcoming in the next few weeks to support static
and rotating control drum geometry; automated extra element integer ID assignments
called Reporting IDs on the mesh to identify and track pins, assemblies, planes,
and depletion zones; a triangular meshing capability for meshing core peripheries;
and a Reactor Geometry Mesh Builder which uses the new SubMeshGenerator capability
in MOOSE to streamline inputs for Cartesian or hexagonal pins, assemblies, and cores
and automatically use ID tracking for regions as well as apply material assignments
to the mesh.

The Reactor module capabilities (current and forthcoming) are discussed in a
[recent report](https://doi.org/10.2172/1821454). This module was developed with
funding from the DOE-NEAMS Multiphysics Technical Area to support advanced reactor
analysis with MOOSE-based applications. For additional information on upcoming
capabilities in this module, please contact Emily Shemon (eshemon@anl.gov).

### Functor System

A new arbitrary evaluation system has made its way into MOOSE. The purpose of
this system is to allow arbitrary evaluation of functor objects at arbitrary
points in time and space. These functors can be called with a variety of spatial
arguments including elements and face information objects. Functors can be
pulled into any object deriving from the `FunctorInterface` using the
`getFunctor` method. Some MOOSE objects that are functors include
[MooseVariables](MooseVariableBase.md#functor-vars),
[FunctorMaterialProperties](Materials/index.md#functor-props), and
`Functions`. Any of these objects can be used in an input file for
`MooseFunctorName` parameters. Functor objects compute values when called via
`operator()`; `gradient()` and `dot()` APIs are also implemented for several
derived functor types, allowing on-the-fly computation of spatial gradients and
time derivatives respectively.

### 3D Mortar Constraints

MOOSE now supports [mortar constraints](Constraints/index.md#MortarConstraints) on 3D
geometries. Mortar methods enforce constraints by introducing additional Lagrange
multiplier variables and can be more robust and stable than Node-on-Face constraints.
Some examples of MOOSE mortar constraints (previously available only in 2D) include:

- Solution Continuity

  - [EqualValueContraint](EqualValueConstraint.md) — Enforces continuity of a variable value between two bodies or on periodic domains
  - [EqualGradientConstraint](EqualGradientConstraint.md) — Enforces continuity of variable gradients

- Contact

  - [NormalMortarMechanicalContact](NormalMortarMechanicalContact.md) — Applies normal pressure between surfaces of contacting bodies
  - [ComputeWeightedGapLMMechanicalContact](ComputeWeightedGapLMMechanicalContact.md) — Enforces a zero-penetration constraint between bodies in contact
  - [TangentialMortarMechanicalContact](TangentialMortarMechanicalContact.md) - Applies tangential stresses due to friction
  - [ComputeFrictionalForceLMMechanicalContact](ComputeFrictionalForceLMMechanicalContact.md) — Constrains slip between surfaces in frictional contact

- Thermal Conductance

  - [GapConductance](GapConductanceConstraint.md) - Models heat transfer across gaps

### Miscellaneous & Bug fixes

- Crystal initial condition actions now correctly transfer the block parameter to the
  Initial Condition they create
- User documentation was added for 22 postprocessors.
- The NodalProxyMaxValue postprocessor was renamed to NodalMaxValueId. The `proxy` term
  is reserved for using one variable to sample/perform an action on another, for example
  sample the value of variable `v` at the maximum of variable `u`.
- The TotalVariableValue postprocessor was renamed to be a TimeIntegratedPostprocessor.
  The new name is more accurately describing the function performed by this postprocessor.

## libMesh-level Changes

- Support for Tri7 triangles (like Tri6 plus one mid-element
  node) and Tet14 tetrahedra (like Tri10 plus one mid-face node on
  each face)
- Reduced Basis EIM updates
- SIDE_HIERARCHIC finite element (shapes defined on sides and
  discontinuous between sides) support for triangles
- LOG_CALL() macro to simplify exception-safe PerfLog support in more
  use cases.
- Refactoring and simplification of the finite-difference-method
  fallback for calculating shape function gradients on finite element
  types without analytic gradient implementations
- ExodusII_IO::get_sideset_data_indices() accessor method
- Fixed file handle leaks in some ExodusII use cases, leaks which
  triggered errors when running with ExodusII version 8.11
- Read support for new IsoGeometric Analysis extensions to ExodusII
- Assorted bug fixes for distcheck, clang warnings,
  non-double-precision configurations, Elem::permute(), other minor
  issues.
