framework/doc/content/source/postprocessors/InterfaceDiffusiveFluxIntegral.md, before:

# InterfaceDiffusiveFluxIntegral

!syntax description /Postprocessors/InterfaceDiffusiveFluxIntegral

The diffusive flux integral is defined as
\begin{equation}
  \int_{\partial \Omega} -D \vec{\nabla} u \cdot \vec{n} d\Omega
\end{equation}
with $\partial \Omega$ the interface, $D$ the diffusion coefficient, $u$ the variable and
$\vec{n}$ the normal to the interface.

The integral of the diffusive flux may be used to compute the contribution of diffusion when
examining the balance of a physical quantity (energy, momentum) over a domain.

!alert note
For finite volume variables, this postprocessor computes the diffusive flux using a two
point gradient. This is only accurate if the (interface) kernel is also computing gradients
this way. Currently, only [FVDiffusionInterface](/fviks/FVDiffusionInterface.md)
is computing gradients this way.

!syntax parameters /Postprocessors/InterfaceDiffusiveFluxIntegral

!syntax inputs /Postprocessors/InterfaceDiffusiveFluxIntegral

!syntax children /Postprocessors/InterfaceDiffusiveFluxIntegral

Commit message:

Add warning on diffusive flux implementation not being universal, refs #17637 #16594

framework/doc/content/source/postprocessors/InterfaceDiffusiveFluxIntegral.md, after:

# InterfaceDiffusiveFluxIntegral

!syntax description /Postprocessors/InterfaceDiffusiveFluxIntegral

The diffusive flux integral is defined as
\begin{equation}
  \int_{\partial \Omega} -D \vec{\nabla} u \cdot \vec{n} d\Omega
\end{equation}
with $\partial \Omega$ the interface, $D$ the diffusion coefficient, $u$ the variable and
$\vec{n}$ the normal to the interface.

The integral of the diffusive flux may be used to compute the contribution of diffusion when
examining the balance of a physical quantity (energy, momentum) over a domain.

!alert note
For finite volume variables, this postprocessor computes the diffusive flux using a two
point gradient. This is only accurate if the (interface) kernel is also computing gradients
this way. Currently, only [FVDiffusionInterface](/fviks/FVDiffusionInterface.md)
is computing gradients this way.

!alert warning
The expression of the diffusive flux in this object is generic, as described, and may differ from the diffusive flux in your specific physics implementation. If so, you may not use this object to compute the diffusive flux.

!syntax parameters /Postprocessors/InterfaceDiffusiveFluxIntegral

!syntax inputs /Postprocessors/InterfaceDiffusiveFluxIntegral

!syntax children /Postprocessors/InterfaceDiffusiveFluxIntegral
