Axisymmetric (cylindrical) materials are included in Tensor Mechanics for revolved geometries and assume symmetrical loading. These 'strain calculator' materials compute the strain within the appropriate coordinate system and include kernels to handle the stress divergence. The ```AxisymmetricRZ``` material is appropriate for a 2D simulation and assumes symmetry revolved about the z-axis in the polar angle. A 2D formulation of an appropriate simulation problem can reduce the simulation run time while preserving key physics. Axisymmetric simulations are appropriate to problems in which a solid is generated by [revolving a planar area about an axis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Axial_symmetry) in the same plane.

!!! info
    The `COORD_TYPE` in the Problem block of the input file must be set to RZ.

### Axisymmetric Model Assumptions

The axisymmetric model employs the cylindrical coordinates, $r$, $z$, and $\theta$, where the planar cross section is rotated about the $z$ axis.  The cylindrical coordinate system strain tensor for axisymmetric problems has the form

$$
\begin{bmatrix}
\epsilon_{rr} & \epsilon_{rz} & 0 \\
\epsilon_{zr} & \epsilon_{zz} & 0 \\
0 & 0 & \epsilon_{\theta \theta}
\end{bmatrix}
$$

where the value of the strain $\epsilon_{\theta \theta}$ depends on the displacement and position in the radial direction
$$
\epsilon_{\theta \theta} = \frac{u_r}{X_r}.
$$
Although axisymmetric problems solve for 3D stress and strain fields, the problem is mathematically 2D. Using an appropriate set of geometry and boundary conditions, these types of problems have strain and stress fields which are not functions of the out of plane coordinate variable.  In the Cylindrical coordinate axisymmetric system, the values of stress and strain in the $\theta$ direction do not depend on the $\theta$ coordinate.

!!! note
    The axisymmetric system changes the order of the displacements vector from $(u_r, u_{\theta}, u_z)$, usually seen in textbooks, to $(u_r, u_z, u_{\theta})$. Take care to follow this convention in your input files and when adding eigenstrains or extra stresses.
