# MOOSE Newsletter (November 2018)

## Relationship Manager System Evolution

In October, the Relationship Manager system gained several new
capabilities

## Grain Tracker Enhancements

The GrainTracker continues to be improved upon, with robustness
enhacements and new functionality in several areas. The GrainTracker
has been updated to utilize the latest improvments added to the Relationship
Manager system. The GrainTracker now creates separate Geomateric and Algebraic
Relationship Managers to ensure the proper amount of solution information
is necessary in distributed simulations for stitching together separate
grain regions.

Other Grain Tracker enhancments added in October:

- The GrainTracker has been enhanced to support "melt pool" simulations
  where the simulation may begin with zero grains. Previously the GrainTracker
  only supported simulations that began with a non-zero number of grains.
- The GrainTracker no longer uses a recursive discovery method for identifying
  individual grain regions on each processor. Modern Linux and Mac operating system
  default to fairly small stack sizes (only a few Megabytes). If the GrainTracker
  is used on finer meshes or with larger grains, it was possible to run out of
  stack space creating a difficult to understand segmentation fault. Rather than
  require users to adjust stack spaces to use this common capability, the
  recursive algorithm was simply replaced with an iterative one, which
  allows for much larger recursive exploration of features.
- Handles degenerative bounding boxes (e.g. 2D bounding boxes in 3D) for
  more robust fast intersection checking.
- Additional algorithmic checks for difficult tracking cases involving nucleation
  and evolution in close proximity (e.g. more tracking robustness).

## Action Refactor

The MaterialOutputAction object and related objects were refactored and made
simplier. Previously these tasks were designed as meta-actions. However, it was
discovered that these Actions could be simplified by being converted into normal
MooseObjectActions (more direct).


## New Enhacements

- Enable Mac OS 10.14 (Mojave) support and debugging through code signing (entitlements)
- CSVDiffer.py (CSVDiff Tester) can now compare a subset of columns (more enhancements coming)
- Migrate to the improved RandomIC in all tests (remove all deprecated tests from the framework and modules)
- Don't update the "failed tests" list when running only failed tests (--failed-tests).

## Bug Fixes

- Avoid unecessary data structure copies (multiple) in SystemBase
- Explicity set the current subdomain in ElementalVariableValue postprocessor (avoid assertion)
