# MOOSE Newsletter (May 2018)

## True Explicit

MOOSE has had an `explicit-euler` option for a long time.  Unfortunately, it still involved a lot of the nonlinear solution algorithm and included a linear solve using the mass matrix.  Now [a true Explicit capability has been merged into MOOSE](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/pull/11378).  This new capability differentiates itself by being extremely lean and fast and providing the ability for lumped-mass explicit updates that don't even need to solve a linear system.  For more information see [/ActuallyExplicitEuler.md]

## Control System Improved

The [Controls/index.md] was updated to improve performance and usability. With respect to performance
all parameters that are declared as controllable are cached during object creation. This allows
retrieval to be more efficient and easier; previously every object and parameter was interrogated
with every call to change it. With respect to usability, the get methods are no longer templates,
only the get/set methods require a template argument. This allows for Control objects to be generic,
for example the [SamplerReceiver.md] now allows for vector parameters to be modified.

## Hypre Documentation

Not really a new capability in MOOSE: but still important!  A new set of documentation about how to use the Hypre BoomerAMG Preconditioner [has been developed](/hypre.md).  The document goes over both basic and advanced usage and is a must read for anyone regularly using Hypre.  [Here is a direct link](/hypre.md) but you can always get to it from the [Application Development](application_development/index.md) page.

## Debugging

Debugging MOOSE-based executables (especially in parallel) [got a large upgrade this month](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/pull/11170). It is now straightforward to start a MOOSE-based solve and have it pop up interactive debugging windows that are attached to each MPI process using `--start-in-debugger`.  For larger jobs, `--stop-for-debugger`, gives you time to attach to whatever processor you wish.  For more information see [/debugging.md]

## WorkBalance, StatisticsVectorPostprocessor and VectorPostprocessorVisualization

A new capability has [been merged](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/pull/11216) that allows for better inspection of work balance (or imbalance!) in parallel.  The [/WorkBalance.md] VectorPostprocessor will output many different metrics detailing how much work and communication each MPI process is doing.  For more information see [/WorkBalance.md]

In order to understand the output of [/WorkBalance.md] you can use the new [/StatisticsVectorPostprocessor.md].  It allows you to compute aggregate statistics of another VPP (like WorkBalance) such as: min, max, average, stddev, etc.

In addition, if you would like to visualize a VPP where the vectors are `n_procs` in length you can use the [/VectorPostprocessorVisualizationAux.md] AuxKernel.  For instance, this can be used to visualize the `num_elem` vector from WorkBalance so you can visually inspect the performance of your partitioner.

## MOOSE `base` reorganization

In case you haven't noticed, MOOSE went through [a signficant reorganization](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/pull/10975).  The main activity was moving files out of `base` and creating new subdirectories like `loops`, `systems`, `problems`, etc.  The `base` directory had outgrown itself - and it was time for some spring cleaning!  In addition to better organization this also sped up compile times on laptops by 25% (even beyond the huge speedup gained by [Unity Builds](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/pull/10578)).

## Work In Progress

We are working to improve Peacock by streamlining the interface to be as simple as possible for
day-to-day visualization, but will continue to add functionality via add preferences and menu level
controls.

Documentation is also a primary effort. Over the upcoming months will be re-organizing the files to
be one-to-one with header files. This will allow for all source code to be documented in a consistent
manner. Do not worry this will be automatic and the current arrangement will be maintained for some
time. We will also be working on updating the MOOSE workshop presentation, adding PDF support, and
will continue to add content.

## Plugin for XFEM Result Visualization in ParaView

The MOOSE XFEM module allows for arbitrary mesh-independent discontinuities to be represented in a finite element model using the extended finite element method (XFEM).  The simulation results from this technique require some additional processing to be correctly visualized because the technique generates pairs of overlapping elements that need to be clipped to show only the physically relevant parts of the solution.

A plugin for visualizing results generated using that technique has been merged into the master branch of the open-source [ParaView](https://paraview.org) visualization tool. This plugin has been openly available for some time on [github](https://github.com/idaholab/XFEMParaviewPlugin), but to use it, it was necessary to build ParaView from source. Now that this plugin is part of ParaView, it is available in its nightly builds, and will be part of the upcoming 5.6 release. This plugin can be enabled within ParaView by selecting `Tools->Manage Plugins->MooseXfemClip`, selecting the `Auto Load` option, and then restarting ParaView. If the results of a MOOSE-based model using XFEM are loaded, this filter can be applied by selecting `Filters->Alphabetical->MooseXfemClip`.
