# MOOSE Newsletter (August 2018)

## MooseDocs Plots

It is now possible to include line plots in MOOSE markdown. The plots are created using
[plotly]; additional information may be found on the [plotly.md] page.

```markdown
!plot scatter data=[{'x':[1,2,3,4], 'y':[2,4,6,8], 'name':'2x'},
                    {'x':[1,2,3,4], 'y':[1,4,9,16], 'name':'x*x', 'marker':{'size':14}}]
```

!plot scatter data=[{'x':[1,2,3,4], 'y':[2,4,6,8], 'name':'2x'},
                    {'x':[1,2,3,4], 'y':[1,4,9,16], 'name':'x*x', 'marker':{'size':14}}]


## Threaded General User Objects

Up until now, general user objects were executed in a single threaded region, even if the
application ran with multiple-threads.  Now, it is possible to have threaded general user objects.
Users need to inherit from `ThreadedGeneralUserObject` class and MOOSE will create one threaded
instance per thread. Then, it is possible to safely access the user object from each threaded. This
is not possible in the normal GeneralUserObject unless the access is guarded with a spin mutex.

The `fluid_properties` module was updated to use the `ThreadedGeneralUserObject` to ensure that
fluid property lookup is always thread safe without the loss of performance.

Note that `ThreadedGeneralUserObject`s are not available when users use pthreads as their threading
model. The reason is that if a `ThreadedGeneralUserObject` (which runs in a threaded region) created
a threaded section, there would be `n_threads + n_threads^2` threads active which would yield in a
performance loss.  If threaded general user objects are needed, they will run properly with OpenMP
or TBB.

[plotly]: https://plot.ly/

## Working with a different version of libMesh

A new flag has been added to the update_and_rebuild.sh script so that you can work with a different 
version of libmesh. This can be handy when a new feature makes it's waht into libMesh but hasn't 
been rolled out in MOOSE yet. To use this flag, simply checkout the version of libMesh that you want
and supply "--skip-submodule-update" on the command line to keep that version when you build libMesh.

## GrainTracker Enhancements

For those people working with phase-field and using the GrainTracker, several enhacements and updates
were merged in during July. First, a significant algorithmic change where merging is performed 
in parallel on several processors was merged in resulting in a significant speed increase when running
larger problems. Additionally, an experimental "boundary restrictable" capability was added to only
count features on specified boundaries was added. New test cases and large input files were
added. A tolerate failure option was added along with several new PerfGraph timers for profiling 
purposes.

## Parameter Error and Warning

Formatting improvment merged this month.

While this is not a new feature (it was introduced earlier this spring), it's worth mentioning again. All
developers are encouraged to use the param[Info|Warning|Error] methods instead of the moose[Info|Warning|Error] 
methods in MOOSE when working with input parameters. The former methods report line numbers along with user
supplied messages when information, warnings, or errors are issued. This can be very helpful when users are
hunting down input file problems. 

## Bug fixes

- LayeredBase is now restartable (finally)
- Better errors for unregistered objects
- AverageGrainVolume now correctly calculates by dividing by the number of active (not total) grains
