# MOOSE Newsletter (April 2025)

## Minimum supported MacOS version is now Ventura (13.3)

Due to the recent `moose-dev` package changes [described below](2025_04.md#conda-package-changes),
the minimum MacOS version compatible with MOOSE development is now Ventura (13.3). If you cannot
update your MacOS version, please consider using the [Docker-based installation option for MOOSE](https://mooseframework.inl.gov/getting_started/installation/docker.html).

## MOOSE Improvements

### MFEM backend support

MOOSE now has base support for finite element computations using [MFEM](mfem.org). This support was developed by the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority (UKAEA), originally as part of their [Platypus application](https://github.com/aurora-multiphysics/platypus), but that support has now been merged upstream into MOOSE. Those wishing to get familiar with use of the MFEM backend can look at [test cases](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/tree/next/test/tests/mfem) as well as the class documentation under the MFEM header on our [source index page](https://mooseframework.inl.gov/source/index.html).

### `capabilities` parameter in `tests` specs

The MOOSE test harness provides numerous parameters to skip tests depending on capabilities
provided by the current executable. We have checks for the `petsc_version`, `required_submodules`,
the configured `ad_size` etc. Those checks all require custom python functions that parse
configuration files and probe the source tree.

The new [`capabilities` parameter](Capabilities.md) combines all the test harness parameters that probe
built-in functionality of the executable, and provides a flexible boolean expression parser to construct
abitrary conditions that test execution depends on. Capabilities now relies on an application
internal registry that can be queried with the `--show-capabilities` option. For example

```
    min_ad_size = 150
    method = '!dbg'
```

is now

```
    capabilities = 'ad_size>=150 & method!=dbg'
```

Application and module developers can register their own capabilities using the `addCapability` function.
Check `MooseApp::registerCapabilities()` for examples.

### Parsed-expression generation of multiple subdomain ids

The [ParsedSubdomainGenerator.md] is able to specify the extent of a single subdomain on the mesh using a parsed expression,
able to represent the combinatorial logical expression defining its extent.
With the [ParsedSubdomainIDsGenerator.md], we can now evaluate a parsed expression on each element and use the integer result of this evaluation
to assign a new subdomain id to the element. This added flexibility facilitates distinguishing multiple elements of a lattice a posteriori,
after creating the lattice.

### Material property outputs system rework

The material property outputs sytem was reworked to perform consistently using both specific `Outputs` objects
and keywords such as `all` or `none` specified in the outputs parameter of `Materials` objects. Several issues were
fixed at that time.

### Neumann boundary conditions for linear finite volume discretization

Neummann boundary conditions, used to specify a diffusive heat flux for example, have been
added to the linear finite volume discretization. This is part of an effort to support conjugate heat
transfer simulations in the Navier Stokes module.

## MOOSE Modules Changes

### Navier Stokes

Users may now specify separator sidesets on variables. These separator sidesets are boundaries that prevent flow,
and decouple equations between the two sides of the boundary. This is helpful for coarse mesh multi-dimensional
thermal hydraulic simulations.

The [DittusBoelterFunctorMaterial.md] was added to compute the Dittus Boelter correlation for the wall heat transfer
coefficient.

### Porous flow

Spatially varying initial properties were added to the Kozeny Carman materials. This will serve to model
ground fractures with spatially varying apertures.

### Subchannel

Examples in the subchannel module were re-sorted into three categories:

- verification for inputs comparing subchannel simulations to analytical solutions or simulations using other subchannel codes
- validation for inputs of simulations compared to experimental data
- examples for inputs that simply feature useful techniques used in subchannel, outside of any V&V effort

### Reactor

The [HexagonalGridPositions.md] was extended to allow the nesting of another positions object within the hexagonal grid.
This can be used for example to obtain in a single object all the pin positions in hexagonal core consisting of multiple
hexagonal lattices of pins.

## libMesh-level Changes

### `2025.04.02` Update

- Set nullspace for both J and P operators because PETSc may look at either when setting up linear solves
- No longer need to manually set hypre memory location for PETSc 3.23. This was previously required for MOOSE stack builds with GPU enabled because PETSc's hook into hypre assumed that any configuration enabling GPU support should always run with data structures on device
- Just use `DIFFERENT_NONZERO_PATTERN` in `MatCopy` in `PetscMatrix::operator=`. This is much more robust than using `SAME_NONZERO_PATTERN`
- Assert `verify` calls where appropriate
- Change API name `SparseMatrix::reset_memory` to `SparseMatrix::restore_original_nonzero_pattern`. The new API name better reflects both the focus of the API and also that this API may not perform any memory allocation/deallocation as long as previous fills of the matrix have matched the original preallocation
- Better error message from `System::read_serialized_vectors()` when encountering a difference between the number of vectors we expect to read vs. the number of vectors declared in the XDR header
- Lock at `PetscMatrix` level when doing add/set. This will allow user code to remove their mutex locks around matrix assembly and also saves users who did not previously have proper mutex locking in threaded regions of their code
- Add mutex to fparser `setEpsilon` to prevent thread races
- Add `QBase::get_base_order()` API allowing comparison of multiple quadrature rules independent of p-refinement level
- Update TIMPI submodule

  - Use MPI-4 APIs for `MPI_Count`, i.e. 64-bit, size support, when available
  - Fix for uninitialized warning with gcc 13.3

- Remove phony make code which could trigger multiple netgen builds
- Get metaphysicl config include
- Allow instantiation of `DenseVector::print` with dual numbers
- CheckpointIO can now handle some of the Mesh caches if needed. MOOSE often skips partitioning when doing checkpoint restart, so now at the libMesh level we `recalculate_n_partitions()` and `update_post_partitioning()` when that is the case.
- Add begin/end members to DenseVector allowing for range based looping
- Avoid creating temporary array for hashword2() overload taking 64-bit inputs

### `2025.04.17` Update

- Autoconf-submodule (ACSM) update

  - When recent clang versions are detected, the compiler flag
    `-fno-assume-unique-vtables` is used.  This enables `dynamic_cast`
    to work reliably on macOS 15 (Sequoia) environments, which fixes a
    number of libMesh and MOOSE failures there.
  - More thorough detection for code coverage support when
    --enable-coverage builds may require it from multiple languages'
    compilers.

- TIMPI submodule update

  - Fixes and tests for `timpi_version.h` utilities
  - Unit test fixes for C++14 compilers
  - `timpi_pure` attribute for pure functions; on C++17 and newer
    compilers this prevents ignoring the function return values
  - Marked `verify()` and `semiverify()` as pure.  This prevents the
    common usage error of not asserting the result when intended.
  - Removed default `Attributes` values.  Code which attempts
    parallel reductions on user-defined types without first specifying
    their attributes now fails to compile, instead of compiling but not
    working correctly.

- Added support for creating and computing on arbitrary polygons in 2D
- Better tolerance computations when stitching meshes along a boundary
  with discrete NodeElem elements
- Fix for reading of Gmsh files with physicals of different types but
  the same id numbers
- Migrated more print methods of templated classes into headers, to
  enable user instantiations with unanticipated types
- Added "-V" option to the meshtool utility app to apply the
  `VariationalSmoother` to the input mesh
- Moved `demangle()` to `libmesh_common.h`.  Any failures in
  `cast_ptr` or `cast_ref` in dbg or devel modes are now reported
  using demangled typenames.
- Fix for return values of `FE::n_quadrature_points()`: after using a
  user-specified list of quadrature points rather than a
  quadrature-rule-generated list, the length of the specified list is
  now correctly returned.  This fixes undefined behavior in
  `JumpErrorEstimator` subclasses with the `integrate_slits` option
  enabled, which fixes a valgrind-detected error and a potential test
  failure in libMesh unit tests.
- Fix for undefined behavior in `SimplexRefiner`.  This similarly
  fixes a libMesh unit test.
- Fix for a Netgen configuration error: configuring the same
  Netgen-enabled libMesh build directory for a second time no longer
  leaves Netgen in an "unbuilt, but marked as built" state.
- Refactoring for simplicity and forward compatibility in Gaussian
  quadrature code
- More assertions

### `2025.04.22` Update

- Add option to variational smoother to preserve subdomain boundaries, and add test for new option.
- Drop `LOG_SCOPE` calls from `DofMap::dof_indices()`
- Update citations
- Update traffic
- Fixes for VTK 9.4

  - Add check for failures to find VTK macros
  - Detect new VTK macros from new VTK header file

## PETSc-level Changes

### `2025.04.02` Update

We updated PETSc to version 3.23. For a summary of changes please see the PETSc [release page](https://petsc.org/release/changes/323/).

## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements

- Added support for objects to turn off irrelevant slepc options. This ability helps to minimize PETSc's unused option warnings.
- When the TestHarness cannot find the executable corresponding to the set value of the METHOD variable, it now looks for executables for other possible METHOD values and emits a useful error message that the user may want to modify METHOD.

## Conda Package Changes

### `2025.04.22` Update to the `moose-dev` Package

The `moose-dev` conda package was updated in order to address MOOSE build issues encountered after
the recent MacOS update to Sequoia 15.4. This required a number of dependency package updates and
changes. Context for this issue can be found in [`idaholab/moose#30227`](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/issues/30227),
and descriptions of the compiler and dependency package updates can be found below.

#### MacOS Compiler Updates to Clang, MPICH, OpenMPI

The `moose-mpi` package (now version `2025.04.17`) was updated to use newer Clang compilers on
MacOS, version 18.1.8. This necessitated an update to the MPICH and OpenMPI wrappers as well. MPICH
is now version 4.3.0, and OpenMPI is now version 5.0.7. On a related note, gfortran was updated to
version 13.3.0 on MacOS platforms to correspond with this change.

!alert! note title=Linux compiler/wrapper versions unchanged
GCC, MPICH, and OpenMPI versions were not changed on Linux! They remain at GCC 12.3.0, MPICH 4.2.1,
and OpenMPI 4.1.6.
!alert-end!

#### VTK Updated to 9.4.2

The [VTK data visualization library](https://vtk.org/) was updated to the latest release (9.4.2) for
all platforms.

#### HDF5 Changes

The HDF5 version was updated to `1.14.3` on MacOS, while `1.14.2` remains the installed version on
Linux systems.

#### Python 3.12 Available

Python 3.12 compatibility was added, making the `moose-dev` package compatible with Python 3.9 - 3.12.
Python 3.12 is now the default version installed when installing the `moose-dev` package.

#### Plotly Added

The interactive graphing library for Python, [plotly](https://plotly.com/python/), is now available
in the `moose-tools` package. The version currently installed is 6.0.1.

## MOOSE Minor changes

- Periodic boundary conditions can now be specified on array variables
- Cross-derivatives `d2/dxdy` can now be computed for the bicubic interpolations
- Simulation recovery testing was turned on for the phase field and porous flow modules
- [ParsedCurveGenerator.md] can now generate `EDGE3` elements
- Meshes are now "prepared for use" before any stitching operations, both in the [StitchedMeshGenerator.md] and when stitching
  hole meshes in the [XYDelaunayGenerator.md].
- Unused parameters can now properly be allowed in the `mesh-only` mesh generation mode, using the `-w` or `--allow-unused` command line option
- The test harness (used in `run_tests`) will now detect and mention executables built with other methods (`opt`, `devel`, `dbg`, `oprof`)
  when no executable has been built with the current method. As a reminder, build methods can be set using the `METHOD` environment variables
- The `--force-restart` command line option was added to force restarting even when sanity checks for the match between the checkpoint
  file used and the current simulation are failing
- `make clobberall` will now clobber all contrib folders that are not git submodules of MOOSE
- Internal side indicators used in adaptive mesh refinement, to measure an error for example, should now be run one the undisplaced mesh
  in simulations using a displaced mesh
- The [SolutionIC.md] was extended with a new parameter to allow a different block restriction in the domain of application
  of the initial conditon and the source blocks in the solution file
