# MOOSE Newsletter (July 2025)

## MOOSE Improvements

## Convergence objects may now be used for steady-state detection

The [Convergence system](syntax/Convergence/index.md) may now be used for steady-state
detection in [Transient.md]. Use the `steady_state_convergence` parameter in the
`Executioner` block to specify the name of a `Convergence` object to use. If
not specified, a [DefaultSteadyStateConvergence.md] is created internally
using the existing steady-state detection parameters in the `Executioner`.

## Convergence objects may now be used for MultiApp fixed point solves

The [Convergence system](syntax/Convergence/index.md) may now be used for termination
of MultiApp fixed point solves. Use the `multiapp_fixed_point_convergence` parameter
in the `Executioner` block to specify the name of a `Convergence` object to use. If
not specified, a [DefaultMultiAppFixedPointConvergence.md] is created internally
using the existing fixed point parameters in the `Executioner`.

Also, a new `execute_on` flag was added for the purpose of executing objects
for the purpose of these convergence checks: `MULTIAPP_FIXED_POINT_CONVERGENCE`,
which occurs in each iteration of the MultiApp fixed point loop, immediately prior
to the MultiApp fixed point convergence check, after `TIMESTEP_END` and MultiApps/transfers
executing on `TIMESTEP_END`.

## Added on-the-fly option to the Residual post-processor

To support the new fixed point convergence checks capability, a new option was added
for the `residual_type` parameter in [/Residual.md]: `COMPUTE`, which recomputes
the residual at the time of the post-processor's execution.

## HTML-style comments no longer allowed in MooseDocs

After being informally deprecated [for several years](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/blame/e82beba543d0047b0777b6f322a16cfa69a50ec9/python/MooseDocs/extensions/comment.py#L36),
HTML-style block comments have been removed from MooseDocs. The currently-supported markdown
alternatives for inline and block comments are shown below. For more detailed information about the Comment extension, checkout out [the documentation page](extensions/comment.md).

!devel! example id=markdown-comments caption=Example usage of inline and block MooseDocs comments

!! This is an inline comment

This is regular text.

!!!
This is a block comment.
Multiple lines can exist within them.
!!!

!devel-end!

## Support for GPUs in the test harness

Several parameters were added to the test harness to specify which device the test harness should
use when running the tests. The options are notably useful for testing MFEM and libTorch related capabilities.

## Deployment of validation testing capabilities

The test harness was expanded to have dedicated `Tester` classes for validation purposes. The tests run a simulation, which
generates validation data, possibly using a computing cluster, then execute a validation Python script that automatically computed,
checks and stores the validation results.

This capability is intended to provide automated validation reports to applications that deploy it.

## Tagging system for linear finite volume

The tagging system, e.g. the ability to compute vectors and matrices everywhere in the domain using kernels and boundary conditions,
has been extended to support the linear finite volume discretization.

## MOOSE Modules Changes

### Thermal Hydraulics Module

- [HeatTransferFromHeatStructure1Phase.md] now allows the user to specify a subset
  of a heat structure boundary using `hs_boundary` instead of requiring the entire
  heat structure boundary, allowing axial sections to have different coupling.

### Reactor Module

The [PatternedCartesianGenerator.md] can now select an arbitrary boundary ID or name for stitching the elements
of the pattern together.

[BatchMeshGeneration.md] now supports `RealVectorValue` parameters for size-3 vectors.

### Subchannel Module

The auxkernels and initial conditions for the triangular and quadrilateral lattice have been re-factored to provide energy conservation even
with meshes that are not aligned with the heated section axial delineation.

## libMesh-level Changes

## PETSc-level Changes

## Bug Fixes, Minor Changes, and Minor Enhancements

- When using the [!param](/Outputs/Exodus/sampling_blocks) parameter of `Outputs` that allow block-restricted output,
  the block restriction of variables is now correctly obeyed.
- Domain user objects now request the re-init of the neighbor quantities (shape functions, volumes, etc) when being considered on an internal face.
- The [ConvectiveFluxBC.md] now correctly supports distributed mesh.
- [ElementGroupCentroidPositions.md] can now be used with a distributed mesh
- Redundant `GhostingFunctors` are no longer added to the mesh.
- The [ElementQualityChecker.md] can now be set to not report a warning when using a metric that does not apply to some elements in the mesh.
- The [SideValueSampler.md] now supports finite volume variables.
- The [Console.md] output header is now saved in the [Exodus.md] info.
- The [NodePositions.md] was added to the `Positions` system to keep track of all nodes in the mesh or in a group of subdomains.
- The [ElementMaxLevelPostprocessor.md] was added to MOOSE to compute the maximum level of h- or p-adaptivity used in the mesh or in a group of subdomains.
- The [UniqueExtraIDMeshGenerator.md] can now have its action be restricted to a group of subdomains.
- The [ExtraIDIntegralVectorPostprocessor.md] can now be used as a `SpatialUserObject` to transfer quantities that were integrated in groups of elements sharing an extra element id.
- The `StepUserObject` and `Step`-concept related objects were renamed to now mention `AnalysisStep`. The following features were added:
  - Can use step-end times to set steps in [AnalysisStepUserObject.md]
  - the [AnalysisStepNumber.md] can output the current step number
  - the [AnalysisStepUserObject.md] can set sync times for all steps
- Application parameters are now stored as const, and should be passed as a const reference to the `App` and `TestApp` of your application.
  Please update your `<app name>App.C` file accordingly.


## Conda Package Changes
