# MOOSE Newsletter (February 2025)

## MOOSE Improvements

### MooseVariableData Optimization

The `MooseVariableData` class was optimized, leading to a 5-10% speedup on diffusion benchmarks. All simulations using regular non-vector finite element variables
and not using automatic differentation should be faster, though the speedup may be limited for simulations for which the hot spot is not variable value calculations.

### New sanity checking for explicit time integrators

When using an explicit time integrator, we will now check that there are kernels contributing to the mass matrix.

## MOOSE Modules Changes

### Navier Stokes module

Advection of passive scalars in porous media was added to the (nonlinear) finite volume discretization used for simulations used with a Newton-based solver.

The `Physics` implementing the linear finite volume discretization of the Navier Stokes equation, specifically for SIMPLE/PIMPLE-based solvers, now supports transients.

In the linear finite volume discretization of the fluid heat transfer equation, the variable to solve for can now be either enthalpy or temperature.
Using enthalpy is expected to facilitate the solution of multi-phase problems.

### Thermal hydraulics module

[WallTemperature1PhaseClosures.md]-derived closures will now generate wall temperature materials for each individual heat transfer when they are used with multiple heat transfers between flow channels and structures.

Multiple (or no) closures can now be specified in a flow channel.

### Fluid Properties module

The [IdealRealGasMixtureFluidProperties.md] was improved. It now supports the (p,T), (T,v) and (v,e) variable sets.

## libMesh-level Changes

### `2025.02.25` Update

- Bug fix: `normals` vectors at the sides of edge elements in 3D,
  which were previously hard-coded to return `(-1,0,0)` and `(1,0,0)`
  at points 0 and 1 respectively (the correct solution only for
  x-axis-aligned edges), are now correctly calculated for all edges in
  2D/3D.  Compatibility with this fix required a corresponding fix in
  one MOOSE application; developers of any applications not in MOOSE
  CI who use non-x-axis-aligned edge elements may wish to test their
  codes for result changes with this update.
- Bug fix: H(curl) and H(div) element calculations are now correct on
  2D elements embedded in 3D space and not parallel to the xy plane.
- Bug fix: Some TIMPI communications of "packed-range" data (data with
  variable-size data types), when given enough input data (typically
  ~4MB by default) to split between multiple buffers and given an
  output iterator that requires correct incrementation, were not
  correctly preserving that iterator from one buffer to the next.
  This has been fixed.
- Fix for a multithreading error in applications where multiple
  threads are encountering elements with negative mapping Jacobians
- Preconditioning option, to scale new raw degrees of freedom, when
  importing mesh constraint rows from a sparse matrix.  This can
  greatly improve solver robustness on such constrained systems.
- Support for the combination of subdomain-restricted variables with
  subdomain-spanning mesh constraints.  This fixes errors from certain
  use cases of subdomain-restricted variables on IsoGeometric
  Analysis meshes.
- Command line option `--mpi-thread-type` to manually choose between
  "single", "funneled", "serialized", and "multiple" MPI
  initialization threading options.  Initialization still defaults to
  "funneled" (for maximum compatibility with older MPI
  implementations), but users of slate/strumpack may need to specify
  "multiple" for compatibility with those packages.
- PetscMatrix support for hash-table-based matrices with newer PETSc
  versions.  This will allow MOOSE much more flexibility in problems
  (e.g. contact) where a priori determination of matrix sparsity
  patterns is difficult.
- Fixes for `HYPRE_SetMemoryLocation` in more complicated (e.g. field
  split) configurations
- Removed `contrib/boost`, which was a version incompatible with
  C++17.  libMesh codes (including MOOSE) which require boost now must
  have an external boost installation to use.
- Support for and compiler flag selection for configuring libMesh with
  newer Intel compilers
- Bug fixes and first-order two-dimensional test coverage for
  VariationalMeshSmoother.
- `MeshTools::n_connected_components()` function to count the number
  of connected components in a mesh
- Added operator[] for DenseVector.  This is more consistent with
  other vector/map container types, and enables more compatibility
  with generic templated algorithms.
- `PetscMatrix::frobenius_norm()` method, and refactoring of other
  norm calculations
- New `transient_ex3` example application demonstrating a explicit
  DG/FV formulation of the 2D advection equation
- Improvements and more options in `calculator` app
- Improvements and bug fixes in reduced-basis code
- New grad(div()) problem example code with Raviart-Thomas elements
- Support for "packing" for Cap'n'Proto users
- Bug fix in FParser optimized JIT output
- Bug fix for `elem_default_orders()` print style in
  `MeshBase::get_info()` and `print_info()`.
- Bug fix for corrupt time stamps in Exodus outputs with a single time
  step
- Bug fixes in programmatic setting of PETSc preconditioners
- Workarounds for older PETSc error-checking macros are now removed;
  raw PETSc code should use `LibmeshPetscCall` for error checking.
- General cleanup in autoconf (`./configure` source) code
- General refactoring in `FEInterface`

## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements

- Radiative boundary conditions no longer have a default emissivity of 1. The emissivity is now required in the derived classes
  that use this emissivity.
- The `Bounds` system can now be used with a displaced mesh.
- The [AdvancedExtruderGenerator.md] can now set boundary names for the top and bottom extruded boundaries
- The `--color` command line arguments to display colors in the console now takes precedence of the `MOOSE_COLOR` environment variable
- Linear finite volume variables can now be loaded from Exodus files
- The current commit/version of the application in use is now added to the Exodus file output
- Synchronization times are now consistently honored in `Outputs`
- A command line argument was added to suppress header output to the console
- MooseObjects now have the ability to disable specific blanket PETSc options not applicable to the simulation.

## Conda Package Changes

- `scripts/versioner.py` will begin handling the entire "bump" process employed when performing any
  actions requiring changes to Apptainer/Conda recipes. Please see the external wiki page detailing
  the process: [Updating Packages](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/wiki/Updating-packages).
