# MOOSE Newsletter (May 2025)

## MOOSE Improvements

### MFEM capability development

MFEM-based objects in MOOSE have moved to a functor-like design for coefficient
parameters. Whereas previously near-duplicate objects were required to operate
with `Function` or `MaterialPropertyName` parameters, a newly-streamlined set of
MFEM-based objects takes `MFEMXXXCoefficientName` parameters, where `XXX` can be
`Scalar`, `Vector`, or `Matrix`. Function and functor material properties are stored
in a single coefficient database which allows for this single parameter type
design.

MOOSE also newly-implemented support for MFEM's low-order-refined (LOR) solver capabilities. We reproduce
some of the documentation in [MFEMSolverBase.md]. LOR solvers work by taking a problem and
casting it onto a spectrally-equivalent one with lower polynomial order and more refined mesh. Due
to the scaling properties of the computing time with respect to polynomial order and mesh size, this
change will often result in a significant performance improvement, which tends to be more pronounced
at higher polynomial orders. More details can be found
[here](https://mfem.org/pdf/workshop21/15_WillPazner_High_Order_Solvers.pdf).

### Input Syntax Highlighting in Documentation

The MOOSE documentation generation engine, named [MooseDocs](MooseDocs/index.md), now has syntax
highlighting for MOOSE input snippets. This includes an additional feature that
automatically links to syntax, object, and parameter documentation within the
code snippets if including the [AppSyntax extension](extensions/appsyntax.md).
Readers can hover over the object name and parameter to get a description of the
object and parameters. The syntax and objects are also linked to their
prescribed documentation pages; readers can click on these links directly in the
snippet to navigate to these pages. Try it out with the following examples:

!devel! example
!listing! language=moose
[FunctorMaterials]
  [mat]
    type = ParsedFunctorMaterial
    property_name = 'pressure'
    expression = 'rho * R * T'
    functor_symbols = 'rho R T'
    functor_names = 'density ${gas_constant} temperature'
  []
[]
!listing-end!
!devel-end!

!devel example
!listing moose/test/tests/kernels/simple_diffusion/simple_diffusion.i

### Postprocessor Restore on Failed Timestep

[Postprocessors](Postprocessors/index.md) are now automatically restored to
their previous value when a solve fails in a timestep. Previously, statefulness
was observed in postprocessor values when a timestep was repeated due to a
failed solve, potentially causing discrepancy in the converged solution.
[VectorPostprocessors](VectorPostprocessors/index.md) and
[Reporters](Reporters/index.md) are also restored, but only if an old value has
been requested. More information can be found on the linked pages.

### Online mesh modification improvements

The [SidesetAroundSubdomainUpdater.md] can now support updating boundaries as they traverse inside h-refined elements during adaptivity.

This same `MeshModifier` can now use a "mask" sideset to decide whether to update a boundary or not. Only sides part of the mask sideset are updated.

### Vector variables improvement

A [VectorValueJumpIndicator.md] was added to perform adaptivity based on the jump in values of a vector variable between neighboring cells.

The old values, e.g. from the previous time step, of a vector variable can now be retrieved using the `Coupleable::coupledVectorValuesOld` API.

## MOOSE Modules Changes

### Thermal Hydraulics: Gas Mixture Flow Model

The [Thermal Hydraulics module](modules/thermal_hydraulics/index.md) has added the [Gas mixture flow model](modules/thermal_hydraulics/theory_manual/gas_mix_model/index.md), which allows one-dimensional gas mixtures to be simulated using a single-phase mixture formulation, which resembles the [Single-phase flow model](modules/thermal_hydraulics/theory_manual/vace_model/index.md) but with an additional partial differential equation for the secondary gas species and additional terms for diffusion of mass and energy.

The `use_scalar_variables` parameter in `Junctions` was deprecated. See [modules/thermal_hydraulics/deprecations/use_scalar_variables.md] for more details.

### Heat Transfer module

The finite volume discretization for the heat conduction equation can now support functors for the material properties.

### Fluid Properties module

[LeadLithiumFluidProperties.md] were added to the module to model fluid flow in fusion device blanket components.

### Navier Stokes module

The linear finite volume implementation of the SIMPLE/PIMPLE algorithm can now support both Neumann and convective boundary conditions, the latter using a correlation to set the surface heat transfer coefficient.

### Solid mechanics module

The [ExplicitMixedOrder.md] time integrator was improved to support mixed-order time integration scheme, using central difference for some variables and first-order Euler for others. This mixed-order approach can avoid using an unstable second-order scheme for equations known to have these issues.


## libMesh-level Changes

### `2025.05.23` Update

- Added a `System::parameters` object, which can be used to
  selectively override `EquationSystems::parameters`
- Improved support for vector-valued elements on meshes with 2D
  elements outside the XY plane in 3D space
- Initial support for `Polyhedron` type elements, with one basic
  subclass and hand-coded unit tests.  Critical support for mesh
  generation and I/O is still forthcoming.
- The `Elem::set_node()` setter which returns a reference has been
  deprecated and replaced by a version which takes the value to set.
  This provides compatibility with new Polyhedron support.
- Added `Elem::type_to_dim_map` and `Elem::type_to_default_order_map`,
  enabling code to query the dimension and/or default order of an
  `ElemType` without actually building an element.
- Added `NumericVector::print_matlab()` and
  `NumericVector::read_matlab()` I/O methods
- `MeshBase::write()` is now a `const` member
- `Elem::disconnected_clone()` can now clone elements which have not
  yet been given a valid `unique_id()`.
- Autodetection of slate use in PETSc, to initialize MPI with the
  `MPI_THREAD_MULTIPLE` setting for slate compatibility.
- `solid_angle()` function for evaluating the solid angle defined by
  three vectors
- Code refactoring for clarity and simplicity:

  - Orientation-determining code for advanced finite element types
  - `Tet::choose_diagonal()` for tetrahedron refinement
  - More local variables declared `const` as appropriate
  - Unit tests are easier to make compatible with `--enable-complex`
    builds

- Removed workaround for overzealous gcc 8.1 warnings about gzstream
  headers; newer compilers including gcc 8.5 do not emit warnings.
- Avoid poor triangulator behavior when given an inconsistent boundary
  input mesh
- Performance logging of `n_connected_components()` mesh tool
- Many bug fixes:

  - More rigorous implementation and verification of
    `MeshBase::clone()`.  This fixes issues that can arise when
    certain `MOOSE` mesh generators accept input meshes which are
    incompletely prepared and have been cloned for use in multiple mesh
    generators.
  - `UnstructuredMesh::copy_nodes_and_elements()` no longer copies
    other metadata such as preparation policy settings from its source
    mesh.  That copying has been moved to copy constructors which need
    it, and no longer occurs during mesh stitching.  This fixes
    partitioning failures in a reactor module mesh generator.
  - `UnstructuredMesh::copy_nodes_and_elements()` is more careful
    about marking its target as unprepared if any combination of
    inputs might cause it to be unprepared
  - Fix for automatic interior-parents detection on refined meshes
  - Backported NetCDF fix for compatibility with C23 C compilers
  - Fixes for compiler `-fsanitize-integer` warnings
  - Many fixes for libMesh builds with `Real` defined to be other than
    `double`.  Many more libMesh capabilities such as higher-order
    quadrature rules are no longer truncated to 64-bit or 80-bit
    accuracy when used with 128-bit-`Real` builds.

## PETSc-level Changes

## Bug Fixes, Minor Changes, and Minor Enhancements

- MOOSE will now error if coordinate transformation parameters are passed in a single simulation context. These parameters are intended for coupling between `MultiApps` using different frames of references.
- The [CopyMeshPartitioner.md] was added to MOOSE to let a MultiApp copy the spatial mesh partitioning of its parent application. This is intended to reduce the amount of off-process communication in [Transfers](Transfers/index.md).
- The [FunctorExtremaPositions.md] was added to MOOSE to gather the locations of N extrema (max/min/max absolute) of a functor. In future, this will let us spawn simulations at these bounding locations.
- [Physics](Physics/index.md) can now skip object-creation tasks through the `dont_create_kernels/bcs/...` parameters that a user passes. This can be useful to combine `Physics` with standard MOOSE syntax.
- Recover testing has been enabled on the `contact` and `combined` modules. This ensures that future development in those
  modules can either create a checkpoint and recover from this checkpoint, or properly error if it does not support this
  feature.
- PETSc options can now be passed to each equation solve inside SubChannel problems, using the pre-defined prefixes.
- An additional `EXEC_POST_ADAPTIVITY` execution schedule was added to MOOSE. This notably enables transferring markers to match adaptivity refinement patterns between a parent and its child applications.
- The Makefile for moose was improved to avoid errors on missing libtorch or libmfem on unrelated targets.
- JSON output of the perf graph was enabled. This is intended for automated examination of solver performance by the MOOSE [continuous integration platform](https://civet.inl.gov).
- The [ADEqualValueEmbeddedConstraint.md] was added to MOOSE. This facilitates the use of automatic differentiation (AD) in that system, enabling numerically-perfect Jacobians without hand-coding the Jacobian.
- The [LibtorchNeuralNetControl.md] object can now be used for recover simulations.
- The displaced mesh is now correctly displaced if adaptivity is run without actually modifying the mesh, because the `Markers` showed no adaptivity was needed.
- The reporting of the preconditioner in the simulation header has been improved to correctly report the preconditioner when modified using the command line. Reporting for simulations with multiple systems/variables has also been made clearer.
- The `FParser` epsilon, a constant used for removing terms during the function optimization phase, has been set to zero (0) to prevent undesirable behavior.
- The [DebugResidualAux.md] will now properly return an error when used with incompatible variable types.
- The [BoundaryLayerSubdomainGenerator.md] was added to MOOSE to change the subdomain ID of elements near one or more boundaries. This enables singling out these elements for custom boundary treatments, such as wall functions in computational fluid dynamics.
