# MOOSE Newsletter (June 2025)

## MOOSE Improvements

### New user-oriented tutorial featuring the National Reactor Innovation Center DOME Test Bed

A [user-oriented tutorial](https://mooseframework.inl.gov/user_workshop/index.html#/1) was released
on the MOOSE website. It features a simplified nuclear engineering study of the DOME shield, used in
the [National Reactor Innovation Center](https://nric.inl.gov/) to test micro-reactors. It does not
involve or teach coding new objects, only using techniques in MOOSE tools to create simulations with
existing, pre-developed capabilities.

It can be taught using the pre-compiled MOOSE combined binary, reducing setup time to a minimum.

### NEML2 Migration into the framework

The New Engineering Materials Library 2 (NEML2) integration was moved from the solid mechanics module
to the framework. This capability has grown in scope beyond fluid mechanics, offering GPU-based
capabilities for materials, kernels, and other parts of a regular simulation. This is one of the three
pathways explored in MOOSE for leveraging GPUs for simulations. Updated installation instructions can be found
[here](getting_started/installation/install_neml2.md).

### Interior Penalty Hybridized Discontinuous Galerkin (HDG) Method

MOOSE previously supported the Local HDG (L-HDG) method. It now also supports interior penalty HDG
(IP-HDG). More information about the HDG kernel system can be found in [/HDGKernels/index.md]. There
is IP-HDG support for advection, diffusion, and incompressible Navier-Stokes. The same pull request
that introduced IP-HDG significantly refactored the L-HDG capability. Instead of splitting primal
and facet variables across auxiliary and nonlinear systems respectively with the former behing
updated during a "post-check", all variables are now put into the nonlinear system. This enables
typical use of Newton line-search algorithms whereas previously only `line_search = none` was
supported. Statically condensing the global system down to the facet degrees of freedom is now
achieved using a [static condensation](/MooseStaticCondensationPreconditioner.md) preconditioner.
This preconditioner may also be used for non-HDG discretizations. As an example it can condense out
internal degrees of freedom in greater than first order H1 discretizations.

### MFEM Backend improvements

Introduction documentation was added for the MFEM backend. It can be found at this [link](getting_started/installation/install_mfem.md).
Subdomain support was improved for MFEM-based kernels, and subdomains can now be specified by name
in MOOSE input files using the MFEM backend.

### New Positions objects

The [NodePositions.md] was added to gather the positions of nodes in either the mesh or subdomains of
the mesh into a [Positions/index.md] object. Note that these objects can then be used to create
[MultiApps](MultiApps/index.md) or set up reduction operations, [MeshDivisions](MeshDivisions/index.md),
and so on.

The [ParsedDownSelectionPositions.md] was added to downselect positions from another `Positions` object
using a parsed expression and/or combinations of criteria. We expect this provides sufficient flexibility
to avoid having to code new `Positions` objects for most applications.

### Physics and ActionComponents workflow

A helper class was created for placing and rotating [ActionComponents](syntax/ActionComponents/index.md),
the `ComponentMeshTransformHelper`.

[Physics](syntax/Physics/index.md) can now use dedicated APIs to skip the creation of a variable, an
initial condition, or a time derivative when another `Physics` or other user syntax has already created
them. This simplifies combining `Physics`.

To further improve compatibility between `Physics` and legacy or new syntax, tasks such as 'adding
kernels' or 'adding boundary conditions' can now be skipped using the `dont_create_<xyz>` parameters
shared by all `PhysicsBase`-derived classes. This partial setup can then be replaced by the other syntax.

### Field Transfers changes

The `search_value_conflicts` is now turned off by default for `MultiAppGeneralFieldTransfer`-derived
classes. This diagnostic was scaling as the square of the size of the simulation and should only be
used for debugging. Turning it off by default is more in line with current development practices.

The `error_on_miss` diagnostic is now turned on by default for `MultiAppGeneralFieldTransfer`-derived
classes. This diagnostic comes at no-cost and prevents missing values for target regions that are not
mapped properly to source regions. The solution to these errors is usually to increase the size of the
source region bounding boxes.

`UserObjects`, including postprocessors and vector-postprocessors, can now be executed in the parent
application right before the `transfers`, on the `TRANSFER` execution flag. This permits the provision
of the most up-to-date values by these user objects. In the child applications, the `TIMESTEP_END`
default execution flag should suffice to obtain updated values to be transferred.

### Performance testing using the Continuous Integration suite

The test harness and continuous integration (CI) suite can now store simulation metrics, such as the
computation time, and automatically add to the relevant database on shared high performance computing
(HPC) clusters. This lets us track the computing cost over time, notably to report on speedups and
prevent accidental slowdowns.

## MOOSE Modules Changes

### Navier Stokes module

A two phase mixture model using the drift flux approximation was added in the linear finite volume
discretization of the Navier Stokes equations. This model is accessible using the [WCNSLinearFVTwoPhaseMixturePhysics.md].

!alert! note title=Known limitations
Please note that buoyancy terms are not currently reconstructed, hence accuracy may be limited in buoyant
regimes near boundaries. Additionally, non-orthogonal meshes should not be used with the linear finite
volume implementation of the mixture model at this time.
!alert-end!

## libMesh-level Changes

### `2025.06.26` Update

- Complete overhaul of `VariationalMeshSmoother` code.  This gives
  support for more finite element types and converges to more optimal
  meshes.
- Enabled FE caching as appropriate for variable types with a
  dependency on edge/face orientation.  Added command-line
  `--disable-caching` option to help with debugging.
- Refactoring of `StaticCondensation` code, improved support for
  static condensation with adaptive mesh refinement.
- Added `matrixsolve` app for testing linear solver behavior with mesh
  files
- Avoid redundant work when preparing algebraic ghosting in parallel
- Compatibility with more Abaqus-format mesh files
- Support for `Elem::opposite_side()` on `Prism` elements
- Fixes for `BoundaryInfo::sync()` with certain combinations of serial
  and distributed mesh status.  Enabled serialization and/or
  redistribution of distributed boundary meshes with separate interior
  meshes.  Added `MeshBase::interior_mesh()` to track the interior
  mesh of a boundary mesh.
- Fix unintentionally set `parent()` on 0D side elements of 1D
  interior elements.  Removed deprecated `proxy` option from side and
  edge element construction.
- Refactoring to use new `Elem::inherit_data_from()` helper.  This
  likely fixes potential issues on certain IGA and p-refined meshes.
- More exhaustive testing for `BoundaryInfo::sync()` methods,
  including multiple combinations of mesh type, distribution status,
  and dimensionality.
- Clarifications in Doxygen documentation
- Minor code simplification/refactoring
- Update TIMPI submodule

  - Enabled `minloc()` and `maxloc()` of arbitrary data types
    overriding `TIMPI::OpFunction<T>`.  Added tests using
    `OpFunction<std::pair>`.
  - Added missing cstdint include, fixing builds with some compilers.

## Bug Fixes, Minor Changes, and Minor Enhancements

- The [PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator.md] can now accept a user-parameter for the boundary to use for
  stitching meshed elements of the pattern.
- The [StitchedMeshGenerator.md] now properly combines subdomains with the same name when merging two
  meshes. It also offers a boolean parameter to prevent this new default behavior.
- The [Convergence system](syntax/Convergence/index.md) can now be used with linear systems, used
  with `solve_type = LINEAR` in the `Executioner` block.
- The `OversampleOutput` class, used to refine meshes before using them for output, has been renamed
  to `SampledOutput` and now supports the block restriction of the simulation mesh for sampling purposes.
  This enables block-restricted `Exodus` output.
- Application parameters should no longer be copied when creating the application, a const-reference
  should be used instead.
- The [Console.md] output header should be output to `Exodus` files.
- The [XYMeshLineCutter.md] now preserves mesh sidesets properly when cutting along a sideset.
- The console output header for MFEM-based simulations now outputs most of the information usually
  found for libMesh simulations.
- The [MeshDisplacedInterface.md] was added to user objects to let them act when the mesh has been
  displaced. If the mesh is not displaced, this new interface's callback is not triggered.
- The [FormattedTable.md] class was greatly optimized and has achieved over 10x speedup on simulations
  that had maximal table output with little simulation cost.
- The [FunctorKernel.md] class was added to compute the contribution to the residual and the Jacobian
  in a nonlinear system using the evaluation of an `ADReal`-valued functor on every quadrature point.
- Support for a temperature-dependent heat transfer coefficient for ambient convection, calculated
  using the Churchill-Ch correlation, was added to the thermal hydraulics module.
- Second-order nodal variable support was added to [SolutionUserObject.md].
- The [ParsedPostprocessor.md] was expanded to support the use of [!param](/Postprocessors/ParsedPostprocessor/pp_symbols)
  and [!param](/Postprocessors/ParsedPostprocessor/pp_names) parameters helping with unsupported
  characters in parsed expressions.
- The test harness can now be specify the memory requirement per GPU of a test. This facilitates
  testing high-memory simulations with the appropriate memory request for the HPC simulation jobs.
