# MOOSE Newsletter (March 2025)

## MOOSE International Workshop 2025

!! Intentional comment to facilitate spacing

!media large_media/news/moose_workshop_2025/full_group.jpg id=full style=width:75%;margin:auto caption=Attendees of the MOOSE International Workshop 2025 in front of the INL Meeting Center.

The inaugural MOOSE International Workshop was held at the INL Meeting Center in Idaho Falls, Idaho
on March 10-13, 2025, and the theme of this year's meeting was "Multiphysics for Energy & Environmental
Applications". Technical tracks covered a wide range of applications and development in MOOSE, including
MOOSE for Nuclear Energy, Fusion, Geosystems, Renewable Energy, MOOSE framework and framework development,
and MOOSE physics modules. There were 169 registered attendees (see [full]), representing stakeholders
across the MOOSE community:

- 70 attendees from five (5) United States (U.S.) National Laboratories
- 2 attendees from two (2) U.S. Government agencies (Nuclear Regulatory Commission and Department of
  Energy)
- 49 attendees from 23 U.S. universities
- 15 attendees from 7 U.S. industry partners
- 14 attendees from two (2) foreign government organizations (United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority
  and the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, Australia)
- 4 attendees from two (2) foreign industry partners
- 15 attendees from seven (7) foreign universities

The event was a resounding success, allowing attendees to share research successes, learn new skills,
and develop ideas for future MOOSE development.

!media large_media/news/moose_workshop_2025/moose_team_plus_steve.jpg id=team style=width:75%;margin:auto caption=The current MOOSE framework development team alongside Steve Bajorek from the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (middle row, second from left). Not pictured: Alex Lindsay.

On behalf of the MOOSE development team ([team]), a big "Thank You" to our community for their continued
support of MOOSE and MOOSE-based simulation tools!

## MOOSE Improvements

### New SolutionInvalidity Summary Output

Introduced a new transient summary table to the SolutionInvalidity capability. Users now have access to the time history of the solution invalidity object at the end of the simulation if they use `flagSolutionWarning` to mark invalid solutions. It also supports customization of the time interval by creating a sub-block in `[Outputs]` and changing the [!param](/Outputs/SolutionInvalidityOutput/solution_invalidity_timestep_interval). Additionally, users can disable the summary table by adding `solution_invalidity_history = false` in `[Outputs]`.

```
Solution Invalid Warnings History:
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                   Object                    | Time | Stepinterval Count | Total Count |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
| NonsafeMaterial : Solution invalid warning! | 0-1  |                  0 |           0 |
| NonsafeMaterial : Solution invalid warning! | 1-2  |                 48 |          48 |
| NonsafeMaterial : Solution invalid warning! | 2-3  |                 48 |          96 |
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
```

### New Automatic Differentiation (AD) Curl Methods

Automatic differentiation capability has been extended to curl operations in the form of `adCurlSln()`.
In addition, coupling the curl of vector field variables can be called by using `adCoupledCurl` and
new base classes labeled `KernelCurl`, `ADKernelCurl`, and `GenericKernelCurl`  have been created to
facilitate the templating of future curl based kernel objects. When an object inherits from `GenericKernelCurl`,
it gains access to the following new variables:

- `_curl_u`: Holds the solution curl at the current quadrature points
- `_curl_test`: Curl of the test function
- `_curl_phi`: Curl of the shape function

### New ActionComponents interfaces

Three interfaces were added to be used on [ActionComponents](syntax/ActionComponents/index.md) as need:

- [ComponentBoundaryConditionInterface.md] to define boundary conditions on the components that get interpreted by the [Physics](syntax/Physics/index.md)
- [ComponentInitialConditionInterface.md] to define initial conditions on the components that get interpreted by the [Physics](syntax/Physics/index.md)
- [ComponentMaterialPropertyInterface.md] to define generic material properties directly on the components on which we plan to use them


### Restart capability improvements

Simulations using p-refinement can now be restarted using a [Checkpoint.md].
MOOSE will also no longer attempt to repartition after loading a checkpoint file

### Framework-level, user-facing API for loading and evaluating torchscript objects

The ability to load torch script models into MOOSE facilitates the use of UQ/ML using libtorch directly in simulations. We also want to ensure that these models are loadable on the fly at different execute_on options.

The [TorchScriptUserObject.md] stores the torchscript object.

A script is available for converting current test specification options to capabilities at `scripts/convert_to_capabilities.py`. Run the script from the root of your repository, for example:

```bash
moose/scripts/convert_to_capabilites.py .
```

when MOOSE is located within the `moose` directory of your application repository.

## MOOSE Modules Changes

### New Subchannel module

The formerly closed-source Subchannel application was recently merged into MOOSE as the Subchannel
module (SCM). SCM is a subchannel physics module for performing reactor core, single-phase thermal-hydraulic
subchannel simulations for bare pin, square lattice bundles or wire-wrapped/bare pin, triangular
lattice bundles. It can model water-cooled or metal-cooled (lead, sodium, LBE) bundles.

The subchannel documentation may be found [at this link](subchannel/index.md).

### Navier Stokes

For porous media flow, pressure drops from contraction/expansion of the flow area may now be specified on sidesets inside the flow domain.
The pressure drops are computed by the [BernoulliPressureVariable.md].

The SIMPLEC method was added to the [SIMPLE.md] executioner for the linear finite volume discretization of the Navier Stokes
equations.

### Heat transfer

Convective boundary conditions were added to support finite-element finite-volume coupling at an interface. For example,
heat conduction in the solution may be solved using finite elements, while fluid dynamics may be solved using the finite volume
discretizations available in the Navier Stokes module.

## libMesh-level Changes

### `2025.03.06` Update

- Quadrature API changes.  A few virtual `QBase` methods have had
  changed signatures, and some methods have been deprecated in favor
  of newer versions, requiring `Elem` inputs rather than mere
  `ElemType` inputs, to enable support for elements like arbitrary
  polygons and polyhedra where a single class can take on different
  topologies at run time.
- `FE` and `FEInterface` API changes.  Some methods have been
  deprecated in favor of newer versions, either in `Elem` or taking an
  `Elem` rather than an `ElemType` argument, also for runtime-topology
  compatibility.
- Add APIs to control `System` name prefixing from C++, not just from
  the command line.  This will enable fixes for a MOOSE bug with
  independent preconditioning of multiple nonlinear systems, affecting
  the optimization module.
- Added an `integrate_slits` option to `JumpErrorEstimator`-based
  estimators
- Added an `OverlapCoupling` ghosting functor, useful for integrating
  on slit meshes or between manifolds of overlapping meshes.
- Bug fix: `DistributedMesh::add_point` now operates correctly when
  given a node id that was recently deleted from the mesh but has not
  yet been cleaned from the internal node container.
- Bug fix: `Prism6::build_side_ptr()` now sets `subdomain_id()`; this
  fixes a failure in adaptive mesh refinement of Prism6 elements with
  subdomain-restricted variables.
- Bug fix: methods which elevated mesh element order no longer
  renumber nodes and elements while doing so.  This fixes potential
  iterator invalidations in some use cases, and it's more efficient.
- Bug fix: when copying nodes and elements from a source mesh into a
  target `DistributedMesh` that is too small to use all its processors,
  the target mesh was left in an invalid state.  This fixes errors
  triggered by certain mesh stitching operations.
- Bug fix for range estimation bug in FParser optimizer
- Minor FE code refactoring for more simplicity and readability
- Minor optimization to some hash (and thus `unordered_map`) use cases
- Cleaned up and commented code with high-precision floating-point
  constants

## PETSc-level Changes

## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements

- Minor optimizations were made to the assembly class when using automatic differentiation (AD). An AD Diffusion
  case showed about 5% improvement in computation time.
- The [ComboMarker.md] now supports block restriction of each component marker that is used in evaluating the refinement/coarsening decision.
- MOOSE syntax can now be de-registered if application developers consider the syntax incompatible with their application.
- The use of `MULTIAPP_FIXED_POINT_BEGIN` for a child application along with fixed point iterations was fixed to avoid
  excessive restoring of the simulation state.
- The element conversion generator will now consistently preserve sidesets of elements when increasing their order.
- The `LinearInterpolation` utility will now properly catch input NaNs.
- `make clobber` will no longer remove compiled `contribs` such as `wasp` or `exodiff`.
- [FunctorAux.md] will now error when relying on a postprocessor functor that is not executed before auxkernels.
- MOOSE will now error when using both `Mesh/file=` and mesh generators. The previous behavior was intended to allow
  the former syntax to override mesh generators.
- `ExtremeValueBase`-derived postprocessors can now compute the maximum of the absolute value of a variable.
- The [XYDelaunayGenerator.md] can now assign subdomain IDs to the elements it creates.
- The [BoundaryDeletionGenerator.md] can now be set to only keep specified sidesets in the mesh rather than delete specified sidesets.
- Schur complement selection and split-preconditioning setups were improved.
- The `show_mesh_generators` option was added to the `[Debug]` block to see mesh generation execution order as they execute.
- Unused parameters will now cause an error in the `--mesh-only` mode. This facilitates debugging meshing input files.
- The [BatchMeshGeneratorAction.md] was created to create multiple mesh generators with simple modifications of the input parameters
  between each generator created. Both cartesian product and component-wise selections of parameters were implemented.
- Integrated boundary conditions may now be skipped when their variable is not defined along the boundary. This situation
  arises when the element subdomains are modified, but the boundary is not. This situation can be avoided either by disabling the
  boundary conditions using `Controls` or by making sure the `MeshModifiers` also modify the boundary as they modify the mesh.


## Conda Package Changes

- The `moose-seacas` package has been updated to the `2025-02-17` release. Release notes can be found
  at [https://github.com/sandialabs/seacas/releases/tag/v2025-02-27](https://github.com/sandialabs/seacas/releases/tag/v2025-02-27).
