# MOOSE Newsletter (October 2025)

## MOOSE Improvements

### AuxKernel support in Kokkos-MOOSE

Kokkos-MOOSE now supports GPU-based [AuxKernels](syntax/KokkosAuxKernels/index.md), with the limitation
that boundary-restricted elemental `AuxKernels` are not supported yet. The user can create their own
GPU `AuxKernel` by subclassing `Moose::Kokkos::AuxKernel`. See the linked document for details.

### New Reporters

Several `Reporters` were added that apply a parsed function to the entries in the reporter. [ParsedVectorReporter.md]
will apply parsed functions to vector entries held in reporters, allowing the user to compute differences
or multiplications between vectors. The [ParsedVectorRealReductionReporter.md] uses a parsed function
to iterate through a vector and reduce it to a scalar. This can be used to find maximum, minimum,
or sum of squares of a `Reporter` containing a vector. These reporters are useful in optimization
problems to sum gradient vectors or to compute objective values, like an L2 norm between simulation
and target values.

### ArrayNodalKernel

MOOSE now supports nodal kernels applied to array variables. Example implementations include
[ArrayTimeDerivativeNodalKernel.md] and [ArrayReactionNodalKernel.md]. Nodal kernels are most useful
for implementing ordinary differential equations (functions of time) throughout the simulation domain.
We anticipate array nodal kernels to be useful for defining systems of chemical reactions.

### Test change reports on pull requests

CIVET now automatically generates testing reports on pull requests which notably indicate:

- which tests were added by the pull request,
- which tests were removed by the pull request, and
- any significant change in runtime by the existing tests.

### MFEM Backend improvements

- Updated `update_and_rebuild_mfem.sh` with the ability to compile MFEM with the full range of supported build methods:
  oprof, devel, dbg, and opt
- Improved support in [MFEMScalarFESpace.md] and [MFEMVectorFESpace.md] for selecting/validating basis functions for
  different FE spaces
- Fixed the attributes inherited from the parent mesh by boundary submeshes created with [MFEMBoundarySubMesh.md]
- Workaround in [MFEMHyprePCG.md] and [MFEMHypreGMRES.md] for breaking changes in hypre 3.0 to PCG/GMRES relating to
  preconditioning matrix reuse
- Performance and documentation improvements
- Added support for solving mixed transient problems with [TimeDependentEquationSystem.md]

## MOOSE Modules Changes

### Optimization module

A flexible framework for adding spatial regularization to the parameter field was added to [ParameterMeshOptimization.md].
Currently only L2 regularization of the parameter mesh field has been implemented. The [ParameterMeshFunction.md]
uses a separate finite element mesh to interpolate parameter fields onto the simulation domain's mesh.
This functionality has been improved with the `project_points` option to allow simulation mesh points
not encompassed by the parameter mesh to be projected onto the nearest parameter mesh element to determine
the function value.

### Navier Stokes module

The Physics syntax in the Navier Stokes module can now create the energy conservation equation using
a specific enthalpy variable instead of a temperature variable. This was implemented to facilitate
code coupling and the future study of phase changes.

### Subchannel module

Subchannel simulations can now be run in serial within a simulation with multiple processes. This enables
using a SCM solve as the parent application along with child(ren) `MultiApps` that are ran in parallel.

The interwrapper problems for quadrilateral and triangular lattice geometries were removed. This is
part of a simplification and abstraction effort which will facilitate the maintenance and development
of capabilities in SCM.

### Solid mechanics module

The [ElementJacobianDamper.md] can now operate on elements that have become so distorted that the
Jacobian of the mapping is negative. The loop on dampers will now catch the exception caused by a
negative Jacobian, and MOOSE will re-try the solve with a smaller time step.

### XFEM module

The algorithms used to create meshes defining the location of the XFEM cut have been improved to
consume reporters to define the crack growth rate. New reporters were created to capture growth due
to [stress corrosion cracking](StressCorrosionCrackingExponential.md) and fatigue crack growth using
the [ParisLaw.md].

## libMesh-level Changes

### `2025.10.29` Update

No change to libmesh itself, but `scripts/update_and_rebuild_libmesh.sh --help` now works.
Previously, invocation of `--help` would result in a script error.

### `2025.10.21` Update

- Dropped deprecated public `Mesh::boundary_info` member.  Other
  long-deprecated APIs are now dropped in libMesh `master` and will be
  removed in the next submodule update!
- Added `BoundaryInfo` methods to enable ID removal and/or renumbering one boundary at a time
- `VariationalMeshSmoother` now supports prism elements; additionally, the verbosity and tolerances
  of the variational system solve are now user-controllable
- Fix for `MeshTools::find_nodal_neighbors` to work with higher order elements
- Fixes for `get_diagonal()` and `get_transpose()` in `EigenSparseMatrix`, and implementations in `LaspackMatrix`
- `DofObject` and `Elem` invalid id constants are now `constexpr`, for improved CPU performance and GPU compatibility
- Fix for a potential preallocation error in parallel HDF5 sparse matrix reads
- Fixes for poly2tri headers
- More optimization for Lagrange 1D shape computations, including in
  tensor product (e.g. quad, hex, prism) calculations
- Test coverage for higher order quads and for mixed elements in the variational smoother
- Improved test coverage for sparse matrix transposes and norms

## PETSc-level Changes

### `2025.10.29` Update

Still a 3.24.0 version but includes a patch commit that enables CF relaxation for hypre boomeramg
running on GPU. This patch is helpful to ensure module tests using boomeramg continue to pass when using
a PETSc configured with GPU support.

Additionally, PETSc configuration was changed such that zlib is now picked up by hdf5 when the
latter is built by PETSc. Proper configuration of hdf5 with zlib is required by the netcdf 4.9.2
version available in libmesh.

### `2025.10.21` Update

Updated PETSc to 3.24.0. See release notes [here](https://petsc.org/release/changes/324/).

## Bug Fixes, Minor Changes, and Minor Enhancements

- Invalid IDs are now excluded when generating a positions list with [ElementGroupCentroidPositions.md]
- An example was added for activating objects for single time step using [chain controls](syntax/ChainControls/index.md).
- The `outputs=none` parameter, on a per-object basis, is now obeyed more closely when the `show`
  parameter, in the `Outputs` block, is used.
- The [ADScaledCoupledTimeDerivative.md] kernel was added to the framework to handle the common case
  of needing to scale a time derivative of a coupled variable.
- The [ParsedAux.md] now uses face arguments for functors when restricted to one or more boundaries.

## Conda Package Changes
