# MOOSE Newsletter (December 2025)

!alert! note title=INL Holiday Curtailment
[!ac](INL) was closed for its annual Curtailment of Operations period from December 25, 2025 through January 1, 2026.
Accordingly, development of MOOSE and developer/user support was very light during this period. The
MOOSE development team hopes that all of our collaborators, users, and colleagues around the world
had a safe, joyous, and restful holiday season!
!alert-end!

[An index of all known MOOSE applications](https://mooseframework.inl.gov/application_usage/tracked_apps.html),
whether open or closed source, currently developed or legacy, has been added to the MOOSE website.
Please reach out on [GitHub discussions](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/discussions) if you would like
your application featured.

## MOOSE Improvements

### MFEM Backend improvements

- Changed time-dependent equation system class, [TimeDependentEquationSystem.md], and the respective operator class,
  `TimeDependentEquationSystemProblemOperator`, to set up problems described in terms of the state of the system at the
  next timestep, instead of time derivatives
- Fixed a bug whereby contributions for some integrated BCs were being incorrectly accounted for in transient problems
- Added [MFEMMUMPS.md] to provide an alternative to [MFEMSuperLU.md] for direct solves using LU decomposition
- Removed a workaround in [MFEMScalarFESpace.md] and [MFEMVectorFESpace.md] for an MFEM bug related to the naming of
  finite element collections constructed with the default choice of basis
- Added [MFEMComplexAuxKernel.md] plus a complex counterpart for each existing auxiliary kernel

### Introduction of Experimental HP-refinement Capability

As documented on the [Adaptivity page](syntax/Adaptivity/index.md), we have introduced
an experimental HP refinement capability. The current HP implementation works by performing a coarsening
test on elements just flagged for h-refinement (using libMesh error indicators or the
`Indicator`/`Marker` systems). The coarsening test coarsens in both h and p and notes whichever
changes the solution more. If p shows a larger solution change (after doing some weighting based on
how many degrees of freedom are added) *and* the solution is sufficiently smooth as determined by
decay rates of Legendre coefficients, then we switch the element refinement choice from h to p. As
noted in the documentation for the `HPCoarsenTest` class, more development is likely required to
produce optimal hp meshes.

### Finite volume initialization improvements

The computation of side normals was reworked to rely solely on the geometry of the elements
rather than leveraging the finite element machinery for computing normals at side quadrature points.
The initialization phase of finite volume simulations may now be up to 30% faster, the exact
speedup will depend on the simulation.

### Mesh smoothing capability

A new variational smoothing technique was added to smooth the mesh with a [SmoothMeshGenerator.md].
The variational smoothing algorithm is a Newton-based variational optimizer that minimizes a mixed *distortion–dilation* energy.
It supports 1D/2D/3D meshes, preserves exterior boundaries by constraining nodes, can optionally preserve subdomain (block) boundaries, and can *untangle some* tangled meshes before smoothing.

### Memory consumption tracking in test suite

The test summaries now include memory consumption for the tests. The consumption is shown twice, at the test
completion and in the summary. When using parallel computing, the former is the total memory consumption,
while the latter, at the bottom, is the memory consumption per processor.

Similarly, the memory consumption is now tracked and stored in a database for the application performance tracking.

## MOOSE Modules Changes

### Navier Stokes module

The computation of the strain tensor was improved in simulations in a RZ frame of reference. The polar coordinate
term was previously missing in all finite volume implementations of the Navier Stokes equations. An approximate
1% change in results was observed in most RZ simulations when processing the improvement.

A [Physics class](syntax/Physics/index.md) for the
[single phase weakly compressible flow k-epsilon turbulence model using the linear finite volume discretization](WCNSLinearFVTurbulencePhysics.md) was added to the module. This shorthand syntax is intended to simplify the inputs
and add significant checks on the parameters being passed to the objects.


### Fluid Properties module

The [TabulatedBicubicFluidProperties.md] was extended to be able to load a tabulation file tabulated
in (specific volume, specific internal energy) and compute the fluid properties with that variable set.
The ability to compute some properties using a tabulation and some properties using a different fluid properties
object was also greatly extended.

### Solid mechanics

Mass damping was implemented for explicit solid mechanics.

### Contact

Block restriction was implemented in the explicit contact action.

### Thermal hydraulics

Component-based convergence was added to all flow channels and 2D heat structures. Using convergence objects, the convergence criteria
can be tailored for each component, to avoid over- or under-solving the equations created for the flow in the channel.
Similar efforts will provide these capabilities to other heat structures and junctions in the near future.

## libMesh-level Changes

### `2025.11.25_c144a6e` Update

- A long-deprecated behavior has been removed: code initializing data
  using an `FE` object now *must* prerequest all data it will later
  access; it can no longer prerequest nothing and rely on libMesh to
  interpret that as a potential need for everything.
- A large number of long-deprecated APIs have been removed:
  - The `DofObject::set_unique_id()` overload that returns a reference
    is gone; use the overload that takes an argument instead.
  - `Elem::centroid()` is gone.  Code that requires an accurate
    approximation of ths should be using `Elem::true_centroid()`
    instead; code that requires a non-centroidal but
    quick-to-calculate internal point should be using
    `Elem::vertex_average()` instead.
  - `Elem::which_node_am_i()` is gone.  Use `Elem::local_side_node()`
    instead.
  - The `BoundaryInfo::build_*_list()` overloads that fill vector
    arguments are gone.  Use the overloads that return vectors
    instead, or use the `multimap` getters.
  - `CondensedEigenSystem` no longer supports direct access to raw
    `condensed_matrix_A` and `condensed_matrix_B` pointers; use e.g.
    `get_condensed_matrix_A()` instead.
  - The `MeshFunction::init()` overload taking a tree build type is
    gone.  Use the other `init()` overload instead.
  - The poorly named `EquationSystems::get_solution()` is gone.  Use
    `EquationSystems::build_elemental_solution_vector() for elemental
    data instead.
  - `System::read_legacy_data()` is gone.  Use libMesh .xda files that
    postdate 2007, and show your pre-2007 libMesh .xda files to Roy to
    amuse and delight him.
  - The old `libmesh/mesh_inserter_iterator.h` header is gone.  Rely
    on `Node` and `Elem` unpacking specializations to insert
    communicated objects into a target `UnstructuredMesh`.
  - The `libmesh_make_unique` macro is gone.  Use `std::make_unique`
    directly.
  - The old `libmesh/auto_ptr.h` header and macro is gone.  Use
    `std::unique_ptr`.
  - `Utility::iota()` and `Utility::is_sorted()` are gone.  Use
    `std::iota()` and `std::is_sorted()`
  - `DynaIO::clear_spline_nodes()` is gone.  Use
    `MeshTools::clear_spline_nodes()` instead.
  - `DifferentiableSystem::swap_physics()` is gone.  Use `push_physics()` and
    `pop_physics()` instead.
  - `DifferentiableSystem::init_qoi()` is gone.  Override
    `DifferentiableQoI::init_qoi_count()` in `DifferentiableQoI`
    subclasses instead.
  - `RBParameterized::get_parameter_names()` and an
    `RBEvaluation::eval_output_dual_norm()` overload have been
    removed.  Use `get_parameters_map()` or the remaining
    `eval_output_dual_norm()` overload.
  - Drop deprecated `MeshBase::insert_node()` API. Use `add_node()` instead
  - Drop deprecated `Parallel::Utils::is_sorted()`. Use `std::is_sorted()` instead
  - Drop deprecated qoi code. Unlikely to affect MOOSE user code
  - Drop deprecated InfFE code. Unlikely to affect MOOSE user code
  - Drop deprecated MeshRefinement accessor APIs. Use
    `MeshRefinement::enforce_mismatch_limit_prior_to_refinement()`
- libMesh now throws `DegenerateMap` exceptions when encountering
  singularities while evaluating geometric element mappings or
  factoring dense matrices, not `LogicError` exceptions, which are
  reserved for errors in logic.  Code catching these exceptions should
  use the new type, or for compatibility with old libMesh can catch
  `std::exception & e` and examine `e.what()` to determine the exception
  details.
- MetaPhysicL code can now run on accelerator/GPU devices, using Kokkos
- `VariationalSmoother` now supports meshes with tetrahedral elements.
- `VariationalSmoother` now supports fine-grained user-controlled
  verbosity, and emits better error messages in cases where a smoother
  optimization solve fails.
- Added `SparseMatrix::print_coreform_hdf5`, to create CSR-structured
  matrix data in HDF5 files in the Coreform format.
- `LaplaceMeshSmoother` now has API signatures to match
  `VariationalSmoother`.
- `Elem::size_vertex_average_normal()` now supports `Edge3` (and in
  theory `Edge4`) elements
- Added `ExodusII_IO::set_unique_ids_from_maps()` to set `unique_id()`
  rather than `id()` from Exodus file numbering.  This can be useful
  for efficiency when loading very sparse numberings into a
  `ReplicatedMesh`.
- Added `libmesh_assert_valid_point_locator()` method to verify
  `PointLocator` consistency when debugging with potentially-changed
  meshes
- Update citations
- Add mesh flag allowing Node/Elem unique_id overlap
- Remove bad pointer math fixing vertex average side normal for tet4
- Update TypeVector math for MetaPhysicL 2.0
- Make `solve_for_unconstrained_dofs()` public
- Warn when user attempts to use absolute step tolerance with PETSc
- Bug fixes:
  - The VariationalSmoother is now calculating target elements
    properly; this gives better-smoothed results for meshes with
    triangle, prism, and pyramid elements.
  - libMesh no longer triggers deprecation warnings with PETSc 3.24
    and newer versions
  - libMesh no longer triggers compiler warnings from NVidia HPC SDK
    compilers
  - Add ExodusII::set_max_name_length() to reduce truncation of long
    identifier strings in ExodusII files
  - Fix compatibility with AddressSanitizer flags
  - Fix mesh stitching with NodeElem surface
  - In exodus reader, if mesh is renumbered, don't load wrong solution vector data

## PETSc-level Changes

### `3.24.2` Update

- PETSc was updated to v3.24.2

## Bug Fixes, Minor Changes, and Minor Enhancements

- The `LinearInterpolation` class can now support automatic differentiation when performing integration of the
  interpolation over a finite range.
- The Intel `XPU` compute device is now selectable when using `libTorch`.
- A custom syntax can now be registered to add the partitioner outside of the `Mesh` block.
- The range function is now output to the documentation for range-checked parameters. Range checks are
  performed automatically before the construction of the object.
- When using uniform refinement of the layers in the `Layered-` objects, the last layer is now correctly used
  for the accumulation steps.

## Conda Package Changes
