# MOOSE Newsletter (August 2025)

## MOOSE Improvements

### Field splits of statically condensed systems

MOOSE can now perform field split preconditioning of statically condensed systems. This required
generalization of the degree of freedom map in libMesh as well as the MOOSE PETSc Data Management
(DM) code in MOOSE. The current target application for this development is preconditioning of
statically condensed hybridized discontinuous Galerkin (HDG) Navier-Stokes discretizations, which we
discussed in the [June newsletter](2025_06.md).

### MFEM Backend improvements

- Added three new auxiliary kernels to perform projections of scalar and vector coefficients, and
  time averaging of scalar variables.
- Refactored executioners for improved timestepper and transient multiapp support.
- Added support to add integrator contributions from auxiliary variables to the equation system.
- Submeshes now inherit the domain and boundary attributes of their parent mesh.
- Time derivative auxiliary variables are no longer created with each auxiliary variable.

### Mesh modification & variable re-initialization

Nodal patch recovery, at various orders, was implemented for initializing variables on elements
that change subdomain during a simulation.
Additionally, support was added for changing the subdomain of lower-dimensional elements for contact
simulations with moving subdomains.

### Minor improvements and bug fixes

- Boundary restriction support was added to [NodePositions.md].
- The mesh generators that stitch meshes were re-organized to share a common base class. The `StitchedMeshGenerator`
  was renamed to `StitchMeshGenerator` for consistency with the mesh generator naming convention.
- Sibling transfers now execute on the expected schedule rather than as often as possible.
- User objects and postprocessors can now be executed on `TRANSFER` the parent application to provide values
  that are as updated as possible.
- Scalar variables are now derived from functors, as are functions, regular variables, postprocessors and spatial user objects.
  This enables their use in numerous objects.


## MOOSE Modules Changes

### Reactor Module

The hexagonal lattice utility can now be rotated around the Z-axis. A rotation by 30 degrees is a
common need when defining hexagonal lattices

### Navier Stokes

The linear finite volume discretization of turbulence standard k-epsilon equations was added to the module,
using the linear kernels and boundary conditions syntax. A `Physics` action is under development.

The example inputs were transitioned towards the `Physics` syntax.


## libMesh-level Changes

### `2025.08.05` Update

- Added support for vector-valued variables in `MeshFunction`, with
  regression testing for `LAGRANGE_VEC`, `NEDELEC_ONE`, and
  `RAVIART_THOMAS` cases.
- Added support for `std::set` values in `Parameters`
- Added generation of boundary condition ids in `NetGenMeshInterface`
  output
- Added support for sliding boundary nodes and higher-order elements
  to `VariationalMeshSmoother`
- Added `SmoothnessEstimator`, switched `HPCoarsenTest` to enable
  smoothness-aware hp adaptivity selection
- Fixed undefined behavior in `ExodusII_IO` input support for Bezier
  Extraction blocks
- Fixed support for `configure --enable-glibcxx-debugging`
- Added `contains()` and `ends_with()` utilities; used these to fix
  broken read support for files with base names of 4 characters or
  fewer.
- Changed `GhostingFunctor` containers to use `vector` rather than
  `set`, to avoid undefined behavior in functors that do parallel
  communication.  Any application code that hard coded the previous
  container iterator return type may need to change to use `auto` or
  the new iterator `typedef`.
- Refactored `add_periodic_boundary`, added more error checking
- Optimizations in `VariationalMeshSmoother`
- Early-return optimization in `RBEimConstruction`
- Corrected link to DataTransferKit repository in
  `DTKSolutionTransfer` documentation
- Corrected `configure --help` output to reflect default-enabled
  status of Poly2Tri, Netgen, and Qhull
- Fix indentation in tests/Makefile.am
- Make sure dof index containers sized even when not active on block

## PETSc-level Changes

## Bug Fixes, Minor Changes, and Minor Enhancements

-  Added a new Times object `ControllableInputTimes` which specify a time sequence dynamically updating during the simulation
-  Fixed bug in `TimeSequenceStepper` that caused segfault when restarting

## Conda Package Changes
