modules/doc/content/application_development/profiling.md, before:

# Profiling MOOSE code

For the deepest investigation into performance characteristics, we recommend
using Google's [gperftools](https://github.com/gperftools/gperftools) package.
This package is included as part of the environment package from the MOOSE
installation process.  Although it works best on Linux platforms, it also
works reasonably well on Mac OS.  Instruments also works well for profiling
applications on Mac systems.

## Install Google's gperftools

If your environment package from the MOOSE installation process has included Google's gperftools,
you can skip this step.
To install Google's gperftools on your own, perform the commands:

```
cd $HOME
git clone git@github.com:gperftools/gperftools.git
cd gperftools
./autogen.sh
./configure --prefix=$PWD/installed --enable-frame-pointers
make -j$MOOSE_JOBS
make install
```

The configuration option +--enable-frame-pointers+ is important for not
degrading the performance when +gperftools+ is linked and profiling is
turned on in calculations. It is important to note that if libunwind is linked
into gperftools, then libunwind will be used to unwind stacktraces, which in our
experience, is orders of magnitude slower than the builtin stack-unwinding capability
of gperftools, at least when performing memory profiling.
[This page](https://github.com/gperftools/gperftools/blob/master/INSTALL) has more explanations about this option.
After this, gperftools is installed under +$HOME/gperftools/installed+ that you can let the environmental variable +GPERF_DIR+ point to.
You could install gperftools in a different folder if desired.
When compiling PETSc, you will need to add two configuration options to make use of this

```
cd moose
./scripts/update_and_rebuild_petsc.sh --CFLAGS=-fno-omit-frame-pointer --CXX_CXXFLAGS=-fno-omit-frame-pointer
```

libMesh automatically adds `-fno-omit-frame-pointer` to `METHOD=oprof` builds. However, if you want
to do profiling with other methods, both libMesh and MOOSE should be built with
`CXXFLAGS=-fno-omit-frame-pointer`. (On a related node, MOOSE will error if the user attempts to
compile with either `METHOD=devel` or `METHOD=dbg` and with a non-empty `GPERF_DIR` as those methods
add assertions that will make the resulting profiles misleading)

The `gperftools` library comes with a `pprof` binary. However, it is not maintained. A maintained
version of `pprof` is located at [the google repository](https://github.com/google/pprof/). To use
the maintained `pprof`, first install `go` using the instructions
[here](https://go.dev/doc/install). Once `go` is installed, follow the installation instructions for
`pprof` [here](https://github.com/google/pprof/). In short, execute the command

```
go install github.com/google/pprof@latest
```

and then ensure that `$GOPATH/bin` (by default `$HOME/go/bin`) is in your `PATH` variable.

## Google Performance Tools (Linux, Mac)

MOOSE has support for profiling with
[gperftools](https://github.com/gperftools/gperftools) built-in.  To use it,
you must compile MOOSE with profiling support enabled.  To add profiling support
you set the GPERF_DIR environment variable to the location of a gperftools
installation (i.e. $GPERF_DIR/lib/libprofiler.so should exist).  It is also
recommended you compile MOOSE in `oprof` mode to get complete/accurate
profiling results.  Then you compile MOOSE like normal - it should look
something like this:

```
export GPERF_DIR=$HOME/gperftools/installed
export METHOD=oprof
cd [your-moose-app-repository]
make
```

This will compile your application with gperftools profiling support enabled.
Note that you will get an error if you attempt to link gperftools (e.g. have
GPERF_DIR defined in your environment) when building
in `dbg` or `devel` modes. This is because MOOSE and libmesh insert a number of
assertions in these modes that may significantly slow down the code and mislead
the profiler about where hot spots are. Moreover, because gperftools hijacks
functions like `malloc`, executables that link gperftools cannot be run with
valgrind and produce meaningful results. Hence it is useful to guarantee some
methods are available for running valgrind.

### CPU Profiling

To profile your application, you will need to run a simulation of suitable
duration - generally at least a few seconds long - while setting the
MOOSE_PROFILE_BASE environment variable to a file base used to store the profiling
data.  Performing profiling run might look something like this:

```
MOOSE_PROFILE_BASE=run1_ mpiexec -n 32 ./your-app_oprof -i input_file.i
```

This will use the filename base you pass and append a suffix of the form
`[proc#].prof` to generate an independent profiling data file for each MPI
rank/process. The above example would generate files `run1_0.prof`,
`run1_1.prof`, `run1_2.prof`, ..., `run1_31.prof`. It is allowed to include
a directory in the filename base. You can use a command-line
argument `--gperf-profiler-on` with a comma-separated list of MPI ranks to generate
the profiling files only on the selected ranks. For example `--gperf-profiler-on 0,2`
with the above MOOSE_PROFILE_BASE will generate `run1_0.prof` and `run1_2.prof`.
If this argument is not given, files of all ranks will be generated.

### Heap Profiling

Similarly, you can do a heap profiling like this:

```
HEAP_PROFILE_INUSE_INTERVAL=104857600 MOOSE_HEAP_BASE=run1_ mpiexec -n 32 ./your-app_oprof -i input_file.i
```

`HEAP_PROFILE_INUSE_INTERVAL` represents that the code dump heap profiling
information whenever the memory usage increases by the specified number of bytes.
`104857600` is `100MB`. You could choose a small number as well if your simulation
does not use much memory. This example should generate files `run1_0.xxxx.heap`,
`run1_1.xxxx.heap`, `run1_2.xxxx.heap`, ..., `run1_31.xxxx.heap`.
Here `xxxx` denotes a sequence number, e.g., `0001` is the first dumped heap file,
`0002` is the second dumped heap file, etc. More instructions on heap profiling
can be found at [here](https://gperftools.github.io/gperftools/heapprofile.html).
It is allowed to inclue a directory in the filename base.
You can use a command-line argument `--gperf-profiler-on` with a comma-separated
list of MPI ranks to generate the profiling files only on the selected ranks.
For example `--gperf-profiler-on 0,2` with the above MOOSE_HEAP_BASE will generate
`run1_0.xxxx.heap` and `run1_2.xxxx.heap`. If this argument is not given, files of
all ranks will be generated. This argument can be very useful for reducing the number
of profiling files when profiling with a large number of processes.

### Analyzing Profile Data

Profiling data can be analyzed using the
[pprof](https://github.com/google/pprof) utility which is included in the
latest MOOSE environment package.  Or you can also build/install it yourself.
When using `pprof`, the **exact same** compiled version of the binary you used
to create the profile **must** still be located where it was when the profile
was created. `pprof` presents two types of profiling times - "flat" and
"cumulative".  "flat" times report the amount of time spent *directly* inside
a function (i.e. excluding time spent in transitively called functions), and
"cumulative" times report the complete amount of time spent in a function
*including its descendants* (i.e. other functions called by the function
transitively).

pprof has an interactive mode accessed by passing a profiling file to the
command: `pprof run1.prof`. In interactive mode, you can run several commands
to interrogate the profiling data. A few of these commands are described
below, but there are others and several options you can see by entering `help`
or `help <cmd|option>` in interactive mode or by running `pprof --help` on the
command line.  The following sections assume you are running in pprof's
interactive mode. We demonstrate the usage of `pprof` for CPU profiling as follows,
and the exact same command lines can applied to heap files as well.

!alert warning
GNU binutils version 2.37 introduced orders of magnitude slowdown in `pprof` symbolization. The
interested reader can see
[this thread](https://sourceware.org/pipermail/binutils/2022-February/119701.html). It is not likely
that this performance regression will be fixed any time soon. If using `gperftools` and `pprof` we
*strongly* recommend using a GNU binutils version less than 2.37, otherwise the performance tools
will simply be unusable. You can check your binutils version by running `ld --version`.

### top N

`top [N]` shows the top N functions that used the most "flat" time:

```
pprof run1.prof
(pprof) top 12
Showing nodes accounting for 2030ms, 31.92% of 6360ms total
Dropped 362 nodes (cum <= 31.80ms)
Showing top 12 nodes out of 313
      flat  flat%   sum%        cum   cum%
     260ms  4.09%  4.09%      260ms  4.09%  (anonymous namespace)::fe_lagrange_1D_shape
     230ms  3.62%  7.70%      250ms  3.93%  libMesh::DofObject::start_idx
     210ms  3.30% 11.01%      240ms  3.77%  std::_Rb_tree::_M_lower_bound
     200ms  3.14% 14.15%      430ms  6.76%  MooseVariableData::computeValues
     200ms  3.14% 17.30%      200ms  3.14%  libMesh::Elem::active
     170ms  2.67% 19.97%      170ms  2.67%  FEProblemBase::setNeighborSubdomainID
     150ms  2.36% 22.33%      240ms  3.77%  _int_malloc
     140ms  2.20% 24.53%      150ms  2.36%  libMesh::Elem::which_child_am_i
     130ms  2.04% 26.57%      130ms  2.04%  std::vector::size
     120ms  1.89% 28.46%      120ms  1.89%  std::vector::operator[] (inline)
     110ms  1.73% 30.19%      200ms  3.14%  _int_free
     110ms  1.73% 31.92%      220ms  3.46%  libMesh::Elem::level
(pprof)
```

### svg and png

`svg` and `png` create a visual profiling graph showing function call
relationships and time spent in each function.  This is one of the most
useful ways to look at the profiling data. The output is printed to screen
by default - so you will want to redirect it to a file:

```
pprof run1.prof
(pprof) png > run1.png
```

This will create an image like this:


!media media/application_development/sample-profile.png
    style=width:100%

A few notes about data represented in the image:

- Each function is represented by a box/node.

- Boxes include two times/percentages: an upper one for "flat" time and a
  lower one for "cumulative" time with percentages of total runtime
  represented by each.

- Each arrow represents a function call.

- Arrows pointing from function A to function B are labeled with "cumulative"
  time spent in function B that resulted from being called by function A.

- The more red a box/arrow is, the more "cumulative" time is spent in that
  function/path.

- The larger a box is, the more "flat" time that function
  takes.

### list

`list [function-name]` shows the code of a function line-by-line side-by-side
with both "flat" and "cumulative" time spent on each line:

```
pprof run1.prof
(pprof) list Assembly::reinit
ROUTINE ======================== Assembly::reinit in /home/calsrw/animals/moose/framework/src/base/Assembly.C
     180ms      5.47s (flat, cum) 21.65% of Total
         .          .   1627:  _current_physical_points = physical_points;
         .          .   1628:}
         .          .   1629:
         .          .   1630:void
         .          .   1631:Assembly::reinit(const Elem * elem)
      50ms       50ms   1632:{
         .          .   1633:  _current_elem = elem;
         .          .   1634:  _current_neighbor_elem = nullptr;
         .          .   1635:  mooseAssert(_current_subdomain_id == _current_elem->subdomain_id(),
         .          .   1636:              "current subdomain has been set incorrectly");
         .          .   1637:  _current_elem_volume_computed = false;
         .          .   1638:
     110ms      120ms   1639:  unsigned int elem_dimension = elem->dim();
         .          .   1640:
         .       30ms   1641:  _current_qrule_volume = _holder_qrule_volume[elem_dimension];
         .          .   1642:
         .          .   1643:  // Make sure the qrule is the right one
         .          .   1644:  if (_current_qrule != _current_qrule_volume)
         .          .   1645:    setVolumeQRule(_current_qrule_volume, elem_dimension);
         .          .   1646:
         .      5.02s   1647:  reinitFE(elem);
         .          .   1648:
         .      230ms   1649:  computeCurrentElemVolume();
      20ms       20ms   1650:}
```

## Instruments (MacOS)

Follow the steps below to get profiling information for your application:

- Download the full Xcode distribution (iprofiler is not included with the Xcode command line tools distribution).
- Compile MOOSE and your application in `oprof` mode.
- Run your application through the profiler:

### Newer versions of MacOS (Mojave):

```
instruments -t Time\ Profiler ./mooseapp-oprof -i input.i
```

This will create a directory `instrumentscli[0-9]+.trace`, where `[0-9]+`
denotes a number, which you can open using

```
open instrumentscli[0-9]+.trace
```

The Instruments application will open in a new window with the profile.

### Older versions of MacOS (Sierra)

```
iprofiler -timeprofiler -T 10m ./mooseapp-oprof -i input.i
```

This will create a directory `mooseapp-oprof.dtps` which you can open using

```
open mooseapp-oprof.dtps
```

The Instruments application will open in a new window with the profile.

Commit message:

Add FAQ for profiling Point to perf graph from profiling page for easy profiling

modules/doc/content/application_development/profiling.md, after:

# Profiling MOOSE code

For the deepest investigation into performance characteristics, we recommend
using Google's [gperftools](https://github.com/gperftools/gperftools) package.
This package is included as part of the environment package from the MOOSE
installation process.  Although it works best on Linux platforms, it also
works reasonably well on Mac OS.  Instruments also works well for profiling
applications on Mac systems.

!alert note
For superficial profiling of a simulation, the [PerfGraph utility](content/source/outputs/PerfGraphOutput.md)
can be leveraged directly from the input file.

## Install Google's gperftools

If your environment package from the MOOSE installation process has included Google's gperftools,
you can skip this step.
To install Google's gperftools on your own, perform the commands:

```
cd $HOME
git clone git@github.com:gperftools/gperftools.git
cd gperftools
./autogen.sh
./configure --prefix=$PWD/installed --enable-frame-pointers
make -j$MOOSE_JOBS
make install
```

The configuration option +--enable-frame-pointers+ is important for not
degrading the performance when +gperftools+ is linked and profiling is
turned on in calculations. It is important to note that if libunwind is linked
into gperftools, then libunwind will be used to unwind stacktraces, which in our
experience, is orders of magnitude slower than the builtin stack-unwinding capability
of gperftools, at least when performing memory profiling.
[This page](https://github.com/gperftools/gperftools/blob/master/INSTALL) has more explanations about this option.
After this, gperftools is installed under +$HOME/gperftools/installed+ that you can let the environmental variable +GPERF_DIR+ point to.
You could install gperftools in a different folder if desired.
When compiling PETSc, you will need to add two configuration options to make use of this

```
cd moose
./scripts/update_and_rebuild_petsc.sh --CFLAGS=-fno-omit-frame-pointer --CXX_CXXFLAGS=-fno-omit-frame-pointer
```

libMesh automatically adds `-fno-omit-frame-pointer` to `METHOD=oprof` builds. However, if you want
to do profiling with other methods, both libMesh and MOOSE should be built with
`CXXFLAGS=-fno-omit-frame-pointer`. (On a related node, MOOSE will error if the user attempts to
compile with either `METHOD=devel` or `METHOD=dbg` and with a non-empty `GPERF_DIR` as those methods
add assertions that will make the resulting profiles misleading)

The `gperftools` library comes with a `pprof` binary. However, it is not maintained. A maintained
version of `pprof` is located at [the google repository](https://github.com/google/pprof/). To use
the maintained `pprof`, first install `go` using the instructions
[here](https://go.dev/doc/install). Once `go` is installed, follow the installation instructions for
`pprof` [here](https://github.com/google/pprof/). In short, execute the command

```
go install github.com/google/pprof@latest
```

and then ensure that `$GOPATH/bin` (by default `$HOME/go/bin`) is in your `PATH` variable.

## Google Performance Tools (Linux, Mac)

MOOSE has support for profiling with
[gperftools](https://github.com/gperftools/gperftools) built-in.  To use it,
you must compile MOOSE with profiling support enabled.  To add profiling support
you set the GPERF_DIR environment variable to the location of a gperftools
installation (i.e. $GPERF_DIR/lib/libprofiler.so should exist).  It is also
recommended you compile MOOSE in `oprof` mode to get complete/accurate
profiling results.  Then you compile MOOSE like normal - it should look
something like this:

```
export GPERF_DIR=$HOME/gperftools/installed
export METHOD=oprof
cd [your-moose-app-repository]
make
```

This will compile your application with gperftools profiling support enabled.
Note that you will get an error if you attempt to link gperftools (e.g. have
GPERF_DIR defined in your environment) when building
in `dbg` or `devel` modes. This is because MOOSE and libmesh insert a number of
assertions in these modes that may significantly slow down the code and mislead
the profiler about where hot spots are. Moreover, because gperftools hijacks
functions like `malloc`, executables that link gperftools cannot be run with
valgrind and produce meaningful results. Hence it is useful to guarantee some
methods are available for running valgrind.

### CPU Profiling

To profile your application, you will need to run a simulation of suitable
duration - generally at least a few seconds long - while setting the
MOOSE_PROFILE_BASE environment variable to a file base used to store the profiling
data.  Performing profiling run might look something like this:

```
MOOSE_PROFILE_BASE=run1_ mpiexec -n 32 ./your-app_oprof -i input_file.i
```

This will use the filename base you pass and append a suffix of the form
`[proc#].prof` to generate an independent profiling data file for each MPI
rank/process. The above example would generate files `run1_0.prof`,
`run1_1.prof`, `run1_2.prof`, ..., `run1_31.prof`. It is allowed to include
a directory in the filename base. You can use a command-line
argument `--gperf-profiler-on` with a comma-separated list of MPI ranks to generate
the profiling files only on the selected ranks. For example `--gperf-profiler-on 0,2`
with the above MOOSE_PROFILE_BASE will generate `run1_0.prof` and `run1_2.prof`.
If this argument is not given, files of all ranks will be generated.

### Heap Profiling

Similarly, you can do a heap profiling like this:

```
HEAP_PROFILE_INUSE_INTERVAL=104857600 MOOSE_HEAP_BASE=run1_ mpiexec -n 32 ./your-app_oprof -i input_file.i
```

`HEAP_PROFILE_INUSE_INTERVAL` represents that the code dump heap profiling
information whenever the memory usage increases by the specified number of bytes.
`104857600` is `100MB`. You could choose a small number as well if your simulation
does not use much memory. This example should generate files `run1_0.xxxx.heap`,
`run1_1.xxxx.heap`, `run1_2.xxxx.heap`, ..., `run1_31.xxxx.heap`.
Here `xxxx` denotes a sequence number, e.g., `0001` is the first dumped heap file,
`0002` is the second dumped heap file, etc. More instructions on heap profiling
can be found at [here](https://gperftools.github.io/gperftools/heapprofile.html).
It is allowed to inclue a directory in the filename base.
You can use a command-line argument `--gperf-profiler-on` with a comma-separated
list of MPI ranks to generate the profiling files only on the selected ranks.
For example `--gperf-profiler-on 0,2` with the above MOOSE_HEAP_BASE will generate
`run1_0.xxxx.heap` and `run1_2.xxxx.heap`. If this argument is not given, files of
all ranks will be generated. This argument can be very useful for reducing the number
of profiling files when profiling with a large number of processes.

### Analyzing Profile Data

Profiling data can be analyzed using the
[pprof](https://github.com/google/pprof) utility which is included in the
latest MOOSE environment package.  Or you can also build/install it yourself.
When using `pprof`, the **exact same** compiled version of the binary you used
to create the profile **must** still be located where it was when the profile
was created. `pprof` presents two types of profiling times - "flat" and
"cumulative".  "flat" times report the amount of time spent *directly* inside
a function (i.e. excluding time spent in transitively called functions), and
"cumulative" times report the complete amount of time spent in a function
*including its descendants* (i.e. other functions called by the function
transitively).

pprof has an interactive mode accessed by passing a profiling file to the
command: `pprof run1.prof`. In interactive mode, you can run several commands
to interrogate the profiling data. A few of these commands are described
below, but there are others and several options you can see by entering `help`
or `help <cmd|option>` in interactive mode or by running `pprof --help` on the
command line.  The following sections assume you are running in pprof's
interactive mode. We demonstrate the usage of `pprof` for CPU profiling as follows,
and the exact same command lines can applied to heap files as well.

!alert warning
GNU binutils version 2.37 introduced orders of magnitude slowdown in `pprof` symbolization. The
interested reader can see
[this thread](https://sourceware.org/pipermail/binutils/2022-February/119701.html). It is not likely
that this performance regression will be fixed any time soon. If using `gperftools` and `pprof` we
*strongly* recommend using a GNU binutils version less than 2.37, otherwise the performance tools
will simply be unusable. You can check your binutils version by running `ld --version`.

### top N

`top [N]` shows the top N functions that used the most "flat" time:

```
pprof run1.prof
(pprof) top 12
Showing nodes accounting for 2030ms, 31.92% of 6360ms total
Dropped 362 nodes (cum <= 31.80ms)
Showing top 12 nodes out of 313
      flat  flat%   sum%        cum   cum%
     260ms  4.09%  4.09%      260ms  4.09%  (anonymous namespace)::fe_lagrange_1D_shape
     230ms  3.62%  7.70%      250ms  3.93%  libMesh::DofObject::start_idx
     210ms  3.30% 11.01%      240ms  3.77%  std::_Rb_tree::_M_lower_bound
     200ms  3.14% 14.15%      430ms  6.76%  MooseVariableData::computeValues
     200ms  3.14% 17.30%      200ms  3.14%  libMesh::Elem::active
     170ms  2.67% 19.97%      170ms  2.67%  FEProblemBase::setNeighborSubdomainID
     150ms  2.36% 22.33%      240ms  3.77%  _int_malloc
     140ms  2.20% 24.53%      150ms  2.36%  libMesh::Elem::which_child_am_i
     130ms  2.04% 26.57%      130ms  2.04%  std::vector::size
     120ms  1.89% 28.46%      120ms  1.89%  std::vector::operator[] (inline)
     110ms  1.73% 30.19%      200ms  3.14%  _int_free
     110ms  1.73% 31.92%      220ms  3.46%  libMesh::Elem::level
(pprof)
```

### svg and png

`svg` and `png` create a visual profiling graph showing function call
relationships and time spent in each function.  This is one of the most
useful ways to look at the profiling data. The output is printed to screen
by default - so you will want to redirect it to a file:

```
pprof run1.prof
(pprof) png > run1.png
```

This will create an image like this:


!media media/application_development/sample-profile.png
    style=width:100%

A few notes about data represented in the image:

- Each function is represented by a box/node.

- Boxes include two times/percentages: an upper one for "flat" time and a
  lower one for "cumulative" time with percentages of total runtime
  represented by each.

- Each arrow represents a function call.

- Arrows pointing from function A to function B are labeled with "cumulative"
  time spent in function B that resulted from being called by function A.

- The more red a box/arrow is, the more "cumulative" time is spent in that
  function/path.

- The larger a box is, the more "flat" time that function
  takes.

### list

`list [function-name]` shows the code of a function line-by-line side-by-side
with both "flat" and "cumulative" time spent on each line:

```
pprof run1.prof
(pprof) list Assembly::reinit
ROUTINE ======================== Assembly::reinit in /home/calsrw/animals/moose/framework/src/base/Assembly.C
     180ms      5.47s (flat, cum) 21.65% of Total
         .          .   1627:  _current_physical_points = physical_points;
         .          .   1628:}
         .          .   1629:
         .          .   1630:void
         .          .   1631:Assembly::reinit(const Elem * elem)
      50ms       50ms   1632:{
         .          .   1633:  _current_elem = elem;
         .          .   1634:  _current_neighbor_elem = nullptr;
         .          .   1635:  mooseAssert(_current_subdomain_id == _current_elem->subdomain_id(),
         .          .   1636:              "current subdomain has been set incorrectly");
         .          .   1637:  _current_elem_volume_computed = false;
         .          .   1638:
     110ms      120ms   1639:  unsigned int elem_dimension = elem->dim();
         .          .   1640:
         .       30ms   1641:  _current_qrule_volume = _holder_qrule_volume[elem_dimension];
         .          .   1642:
         .          .   1643:  // Make sure the qrule is the right one
         .          .   1644:  if (_current_qrule != _current_qrule_volume)
         .          .   1645:    setVolumeQRule(_current_qrule_volume, elem_dimension);
         .          .   1646:
         .      5.02s   1647:  reinitFE(elem);
         .          .   1648:
         .      230ms   1649:  computeCurrentElemVolume();
      20ms       20ms   1650:}
```

## Instruments (MacOS)

Follow the steps below to get profiling information for your application:

- Download the full Xcode distribution (iprofiler is not included with the Xcode command line tools distribution).
- Compile MOOSE and your application in `oprof` mode.
- Run your application through the profiler:

### Newer versions of MacOS (Mojave):

```
instruments -t Time\ Profiler ./mooseapp-oprof -i input.i
```

This will create a directory `instrumentscli[0-9]+.trace`, where `[0-9]+`
denotes a number, which you can open using

```
open instrumentscli[0-9]+.trace
```

The Instruments application will open in a new window with the profile.

### Older versions of MacOS (Sierra)

```
iprofiler -timeprofiler -T 10m ./mooseapp-oprof -i input.i
```

This will create a directory `mooseapp-oprof.dtps` which you can open using

```
open mooseapp-oprof.dtps
```

The Instruments application will open in a new window with the profile.
