# MOOSE Newsletter (February 2026)

## Mailing List is Back!

We will utilize this mailing list as a platform for notifying users of announcements on the MOOSE GitHub Discussions page.

!include help/contact_us.md start=moose-announce end=moose-announce+ include-end=True

You can expect occasional messages about things like newsletters (once a month) and upcoming
trainings and conferences. This list will remain low traffic, with only a few messages a month, and
is not enabled for discussion. Announcements made there will link to the corresponding GitHub
Discussions post for further engagement and discussion.

## MOOSE Improvements

### Capabilities Expansion

The use of the [Capabilities.md] system within the TestHarness has been expanded significantly in [idaholab/moose#32294](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/pull/32294). Many test specification parameters that allow for the filtering or skipping of tests have been removed and must now use the `capabilities` test specification parameter. The use of these removed parameters will now produce an error with helpful information on what to specify as a capability instead.

For example, what was previously:

```
[Tests]
  [test]
    type = RunApp.i
    input = input.i
    min_ad_size = 50
    method = opt
    platform = linux
    vtk = true
  []
[]
```

Must now be described as:

```
[Tests]
  [test]
    type = RunApp.i
    input = input.i
    capabilities = 'ad_size>=50 & method=opt & platform=linux & vtk'
  []
[]
```

In the future, many more test specification parameters will be transitioned to use the `capabilities` parameter, such as: `min_parallel`, `max_parallel`, `min_threads`, `max_threads`, `heavy`, and `valgrind`.

### Distributed mesh support expansion

The following objects now support the use of a distributed mesh:

- the [BreakMeshByBlockGenerator.md] can be used to split meshes at interfaces.
- the [SolutionUserObject.md] can now be used to load a Nemesis file in a distributed manner.
  The partitioning of the solution mesh must match the partitioning of the mesh when requesting values from the solution file.

### Warning summary table

A table is now printed at the end of the simulation summarizing all the warnings that occured. The warnings are identified
using the name of the objects that reported them. The time step or steps on which the warnings occured are also reported.
Due to limitations in the interface used to manage this table, the exact text of the warning is not reported in the table, as this text
could depend on each occurence.

### FullSolveMultiApp fixed point iteration optimization

When using fixed point iterations between multiapps, there was an option to keep the solution at each restore
(the `keep_solution_during_restore` parameter). This triggered a copy of the solution vector from the end of a fixed point iteration
to the initial guess for the next fixed point iteration. However, this solution vector was then copied to create the old state of the variable
which is notably used to compute the time derivative. There is now a parameter to allow or prevent this copy, depending on the type
of simulation being restarted at each fixed point iteration.

This new parameter [!param](/MultiApps/FullSolveMultiApp/update_old_solution_when_keeping_solution_during_restore) is
mandatory when using `keep_solution_during_restore` because either behavior may be desirable in different circumstances.

### Minor changes

- The [TimeIntegratedPostprocessor.md] has been modified to allow the implementation of additional time integration methods,
  as needs arise, for the time integration of the postprocessor.
- The [CombinedVectorPostprocessor.md] has been added to be able to append and sort vectors from multiple vectorpostprocessors.
  If the vectors are not the same length between the two postprocessors, filler values are appended.
- Block names and ids are now conserved when extracting one or more subdomains to form a mesh in the [BlockToMeshConverterGenerator.md].

## MOOSE Bug Fixes

- `Coupleable::coupledAllDofValues` now correctly declares the variable dependencies. These dependencies are for example used to order
  the execution of auxiliary kernels
- Functor material property output will now use the property name rather than the parameter name for the name of the variable storing the output
- Three tests which would fail on ARM Macs due to floating point calculation differences were made more robust.

## MOOSE Modules Changes

### Fluid Properties

[Water97FluidProperties.md] was extended to provide the temperature computed from pressure and enthalpy in region 4 and 5 as defined by the IAPWS-97.

## libMesh-level Changes

### `2026.02.13_6232e98_0` Update

- Added `MeshBase::Preparation` class, and setter APIs, supporting more fine-grained alternatives to `MeshBase::is_prepared()`.  Mesh generation and modification code can now query whether a mesh is prepared in specific ways, and mark a mesh as unprepared in specific ways, allowing for much more efficient use of partially-prepared meshes in complex mesh generators and systems of mesh generators.
- MeshGeneration::build_square()` now supports `C0POLYGON` elements, building a hexagonal mesh on a rectangular domain, with triangles and quads at boundaries to fit.
- `GhostingFunctor` subclasses must now override `clone()` in non-deprecated builds.  This allows the library to preserve their functionality when cloning a mesh.
- Added more `NemesisIO` getters, similar to `ExodusII_IO` APIs, to enable MOOSE `SolutionUserObject` compatibility with distributed mesh+solution files
- System::project_solution and project_vector can now optionally take a predicated element iterator range, to project on a subset of a mesh.
- Added `libmesh_config.h` entries to query static library build settings
- Added `Elem::operator!=` to test (up to reordering) element equality
- Added `Elem::total_family_tree_by_side()` helper function
- `configure --with-hdf5-required` now attempts to detect HDF5 in existing paths if no specific HDF5 paths are specified.
- Added store_dirichlet_operators option for reduced_basis training
- Compatibility with newer OSX SDKs

  - Fixes for MetaPhysicL compatibility with more-standards-conforming Apple clang
  - Workarounds for libMesh::Xdr compatibility with less-standard Apple XDR

- Assorted bug fixes

  - Backported fix for valgrind compatibility to contrib ExodusII v8.11
  - Fixed regression in builds with PETSc but without Hypre
  - Fixed copying of `interior_parent` pointers in certain corner cases when e.g. stitching or cloning meshes.
  - Fixed copying of AMR `children_on_boundary` setting when copying `BoundaryInfo`
  - Fixed multiple cases of `remote_elem` neighbors not being made into non-remote `Elem *` links after a previously-remote element is received during repartitioning of refined meshes
  - Weakened overzealous assertion on distributed meshes with `interior_parent` pointers
  - Ensured that cached data remains up to date after various mesh and boundary data operations
  - Infinite-element builder code is now compatible with more general unstructured distributed meshes.
  - `InfQuad::is_child_on_side()` is no longer completely broken.

### `2026.02.18_f8a1758_0` Update

- Bug fix for `PetscVector(Vec)` constructor for parallel non-`VECMPI` vectors.  This fixes a regression in the use of other parallel-capable (e.g. `-vec_type kokkos`) implementations with our `SNES` solver interfaces on multiple ranks.
- Bug fix for `FEMContext` initialization of data for non-local (outside any `Elem`) data.

## PETSc-level Changes

The PETSc submodule has been updated from version 3.24.3 to 3.24.4. Find the GitHub generated set of
changes here: [`v3.24.3...v3.24.4`](https://gitlab.com/petsc/petsc/-/compare/v3.24.3...v3.24.4?from_project_id=13882401)

## Conda Package Updates

### `moose-tools 2026.02.05`

- Pin python package `coverage` to 7.13.2 (see [#32313](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/issues/32313))

### `moose-dev 2026.02.05`

- Forced update due to `coverage` pinning in `moose-tools 2026.02.05`

### `moose-wasp 2025.09.19 02960f1_build_2`

- Forced update due to reformatting of pyhit

### `moose-dev 2026.02.10`

- Forced update due to reformatting of framework python and pyhit

### `moose-mpi 2026.02.16`

- Update compiler pins

### `moose-tools 2026.02.16`

- Update black to 26.1.0
- Update ruff to 0.15.1
- Remove old unused version requirements on git-lfs and matplotlib-base

### `moose-seacas 2025.10.14_0`

- Rebuild due to new compiler pins in `moose-mpi 2026.02.16`

### `moose-wasp 2025.09.19_02960f1_3`

- Rebuild due to new compiler pins in `moose-mpi 2026.02.16`

### `moose-libmesh-vtk 9.6.0_0`

- Update VTK [`v9.5.2...v9.6.0`](https://gitlab.kitware.com/vtk/vtk/-/compare/v9.5.2...v9.6.0?from_project_id=13)
- Store libmesh configure and build logs in install

### `moose-petsc 3.24.4_0`

- Update PETSc [`v3.24.3...v3.24.4`](https://gitlab.com/petsc/petsc/-/compare/v3.24.3...v3.24.4?from_project_id=13882401)

### `moose-libmesh 2026.02.13_6232e98_0`

- Update libmesh [`502d428...6232e98`](https://github.com/libMesh/libmesh/compare/502d42871efb6093844d2e02abe82bb15d48a033...6232e98388e305fdf30f2a4905f83c4f71c577c6)

### `moose-dev 2026.02.16`

- Updated dependencies per above

### `moose-wasp 2025.09.19_02960f1_4`

- Rebuild due to new black format in `conda/wasp/test_pyhit.py`

### `moose-dev 2026.02.17`

- Rebuild due to `moose-wasp 2025.09.19_02960f1_4` bump

### `moose-libmesh 2026.02.13_6232e98_0`

- Update libmesh [`6232e98...f8a1758`](github.com/libMesh/libmesh/compare/6232e98388e305fdf30f2a4905f83c4f71c577c6...f8a17588c82a850969afc7d740f3da286da01463)

### `moose-dev 2026.02.20`

- Bump due to dependency updates

## Apptainer Package Updates

### `moose-dev:2026.02.05`

- Forced update due to `coverage` pinning in `moose-tools 2026.02.05`

### `moose-dev:2026.02.10`

- Forced update due to reformatting of framework python and pyhit

### `moose-mpi:2026.02.25`

- Update base OS image
- Update mpich to 5.0.0 for clang, clang_min, cuda, and gcc_min variants
- Update mpich to 4.3.2 for intel variant
- Update openmpi to 5.0.9
- Add rocky9 variant with gcc 13.3.3 mpich 4.3.2, and openmpi 5.0.9

### `moose-petsc:3.24.4_0`

- Update PETSc [`v3.24.3...v3.24.4`](https://gitlab.com/petsc/petsc/-/compare/v3.24.3...v3.24.4?from_project_id=13882401)

### `moose-libmesh:2026.02.13_6232e98_0`

- Update libmesh [`502d428...6232e98`](https://github.com/libMesh/libmesh/compare/502d42871efb6093844d2e02abe82bb15d48a033...6232e98388e305fdf30f2a4905f83c4f71c577c6)
- Store libmesh configure log in install

### `moose-dev:2026.02.16`

- Updated dependencies per above
- Update code-server to 4.109.2
- Update gperftools to 2.18
- Update go for gperftools build to 2.16.0
- Update miniforge to 26.1.0-0
- Update pytorch to 2.10.0

### `moose-dev:2026.02.17`

- Rebuild due to `moose-wasp 2025.09.19_02960f1_4` bump

### `moose-libmesh:2026.02.18_f8a1758_0`

- Update libmesh [`6232e98...f8a1758`](github.com/libMesh/libmesh/compare/6232e98388e305fdf30f2a4905f83c4f71c577c6...f8a17588c82a850969afc7d740f3da286da01463)
- Set `--with-nvtx` and `--enable-perflog` when building with cuda (see #32039)

### `moose-dev:2026.02.20`

- Bump due to dependency updates
