# MOOSE Newsletter (April 2026)

## MOOSE Improvements

### Removal of MFEMGeneralUserObject

MFEM systems are no longer built on top of a general user object. MFEM systems
are now instead queried like first-class systems through `TheWarehouse`.
Additionally, "execute" objects, like MFEM auxiliary kernels, postprocessors,
vectorpostprocessors, and sub-mesh transfers sub-class from `MFEMExecutedObject`,
which inherits from `DependencyResolverInterface`. `MFEMExecutedObjects` are
consequently automatically dependency sorted before execution, such that an
auxiliary kernel may depend on a postprocessor which itself depends on a different
auxiliary kernel which depends on a different postprocessor. This is a
dependency chain which has never been supported previously in MOOSE. This
dependency chain is made possible by the fact that each execute object performs
its own element loops (if required). This is also being done within the ongoing
libMesh/Kokkos development, such that we may see arbitrary dependency resolution
with the libMesh finite element backend in oncoming months when using
MOOSE-Kokkos objects. This arbitrary dependency resolution removes the need for
parameters such as `execution_order_group` within user objects.

### Kokkos Backend Improvements

A big design change that affects all Kokkos-MOOSE objects was made: every hook method of objects is now defined as a template function with respect to the derived object type. For example:

```cpp
template <typename Derived>
KOKKOS_FUNCTION Real computeQpResidual(const unsigned int i,
                                       const unsigned int qp,
                                       AssemblyDatum & datum) const;
```

This is to ease the static polymorphism implementation for users. Even though the hook method is defined in a base class, users can safely cast `this` pointer to their derived type and call derived class methods using the template argument, like:

```cpp
static_cast<const Derived *>(this)->foo();
```

Consequently, the shim methods (e.g., `computeQpResidualShim`) that were originally intended to serve this purpose were removed.

Other improvements include:

- Material properties can now have different `constant_on` options on different subdomains. For example, a material property can be defined with `constant_on = ELEMENT` on subdomain A and `constant_on = SUBDOMAIN` on subdomain B. However, boundary-restricted material properties should still have the same option across the domain.
- Dimension limit of `Array` (up to 5 dimensions) and `JaggedArray` (up to 3 inner and outer dimensions) was removed by leveraging variadic templates. They can now have arbitrary dimensions.
- The `datum.reinit()` function was removed. Calling it for each quadrature point in a quadrature loop is no longer required.
- Basic parsed function support was added, and [KokkosParsedFunction.md], [KokkosParsedMaterial.md], and [KokkosParsedAux.md] are now available. However, using other functions in a parsed function is currently not supported for GPUs due to the limitation of virtual dispatches on GPUs. Parsed objects can facilitate the rapid prototyping of simulations using simple function definitions directly in the input file. Known applications of these parsed objects include field postprocessing, direct input of an analytical shape (for example, a cosine axial power profile) and simple linear models for material properties.
- The Kokkos version of `VectorPostprocessors` and `Reporters` are now available.
- Different registration paths for user objects and reducers were unified, and all the `UserObjects` and their derivatives (`Postprocessors`, `VectorPostprocessors` and `Reporters`) are now registered with `registerKokkosUserObject`. Making an object to be a reducer is achieved by defining reducer hook methods instead of user object hook methods. See [this page](syntax/KokkosUserObjects/index.md#reducers) for details.
- Incompatibility of `UserObjectInterface` with Kokkos-MOOSE user objects was fixed.
- `Kernels` and `IntegratedBCs` can exploit additional parallelism over local degrees of freedom (DOFs) by setting the `num_local_threads` parameter, which can improve performance. The optimal number of threads is problem-dependent but is generally recommended to be a divisor of the number of DOFs per element.
- `IntegratedBCValue` is now provided for optimizing integrated boundary conditions where the residual is of the form $(\dots, \psi_i)$, i.e. the test function can be factored out. This is the equivalent of [KernelValue](syntax/KokkosKernels/index.md#kokkos_kernel_optimized) for integrated boundary conditions and has the same interface.

### Added NaN/Inf Debug Option

In some architectures (notably MacOS), floating point exceptions, like those produced by NaNs or Infs,
do not get thrown, even in `devel` and `dbg` compile modes. A new option for `devel`
and `dbg` modes, `Debug/error_on_residual_nan=true`, can now be used for these
situations, which will throw an error upon any NaN or Inf value entering the
nonlinear residual and provide the name of the residual object so that users
can troubleshoot the source of the bad value.

### Added MOOSE User Short Workshop Slides

The [MOOSE User Short Workshop slides](user_short_workshop/index.md alternative=missing_config.md)
have been made available. This workshop is approximately 4 hours in length and focuses
on the fundamentals of using a MOOSE application.

### 1D spline in 3D space meshing capabilities

The [SplineMeshGenerator.md] was added to MOOSE to create meshes of edge elements following a 1D spline.
The B-Spline accepts starting and ending locations and directions, to be able to connect 1D meshes with a smooth
connection.

### Reporter point sources

The point sources treatment in [ReporterPointSource.md] was improved to better handle points in very close
proximity. The tolerance parameter can be used to decide whether to merge close sources or keep them separate.

### Tensor material properties from other properties

The [RankTwoTensorFromComponentProperties.md] was added to form tensor material properties from other
material properties. This facilitates the creation of fully anisotropic diffusion coefficients.

### Eigenvalue solve object

The [Eigenvalue.md] executioner was modified to rely on an eigen-problem solve object. This lets application
developers create new executioners that leverage the solve objects to solve eigenvalue problems as part of
workflows that include additional solution steps.

### Renumbering elements based on subdomains

The [RenumberBySubdomainGenerator.md] was added to renumber (change their ID) elements and their nodes in the
mesh based on the subdomain appartenance of the elements. This enables element and node-based loops in MOOSE
to change subdomains, and reinit on the new subdomain, as little as possible. This is an optimization that
has been observed to reduce computational costs up to 10% in a specific case.

### Linear finite volume boundary conditions

Linear finite volume boundary conditions can now be controlled using the [Controls system](syntax/Controls/index.md).

Linear finite volume boundary conditions now include sidedness detection to be able to easily evaluate
functors and variables on either side of the boundary. For example in conjugate heat transfer problems,
the fluid and solid domain may lie on different sides of the boundary, and thus the fluid and solid temperatures
should be evaluated on the appropriate side.

## MOOSE Bug Fixes

- Nodal dampers now correctly handle block restriction mismatches between the variable and the damper.
- Constraints no longer seek to add potential sparsity pattern entries when hash table matrix assembly is enabled. This
  removes an unnecessary and slow operation.

## MOOSE Modules Changes

### Heat Transfer module

The following improvements have been made to view factors:

- Added [!param](/UserObjects/SpecifiedViewFactor/normalization_method) parameter
  to allow choosing between the default (Lagrange multiplier) view factor normalization
  method and an inverse row sum method.
- Added [SpecifiedViewFactor.md] for user-specified view factors (deprecates [ConstantViewFactorSurfaceRadiation.md])
- Allowed [ViewFactorVectorPostprocessor.md] to work with [ViewFactorBase.md] objects
  directly.

The [KokkosHeatConductionTimeDerivative.md] was added to be able to solve transient heat conduction problems
with Kokkos-MOOSE.

### Reactor module

The [ControlDrumMaterial.md] was added to define material properties for the various drum segments (absorber, clad, background, etc),
be able to evaluate at runtime in which segment a quadrature point lies, and return the appropriate property.

Deletion methods were added to the Constructive Solid Geometry support, to prepare for the merging of various
cells and universities when creating assemblies from multiple cells.

### Navier Stokes module

[PIMPLE.md] can now be used with the conjugate heat transfer capabilities. This combination has not been validated
unlike the use of [SIMPLE.md] with conjugate heat transfer which has been studied in `OpenPronghorn`.

### Thermal hydraulics module

The [HSCoupled2D3D.md] now supports the application of a symmetry factor when the 3D domain mesh only covers an angular sector of the
true 3D structure geometry.

## libMesh-level Changes

### `2026.04.13_0185b8b` Update

- In serial runs, treat `PARALLEL` and `GHOSTED` `PetscVector`s with underlying serial `Vec` types, for greater efficiency, especially on GPU.
- Automatic generation of `C0Polyhedron` midnode whenever necessary to enable a non-degenerate internal tetrahedralization.
- Option to skip `interior_parent()` calculation during mesh preparation
- Minor fixes for compiler warnings
- Minor UI improvements for mesh calculator app
- Correctly set `has_interior_parent_ptrs` if skipping interior parents
- Patch `PetscSolverException` for PETSc 3.25

## PETSc-level Changes

PETSc has been updated from version `3.24.5` to `3.24.6`. A summary comparison of the changes within
this update can be found on the [PETSc GitLab](https://gitlab.com/petsc/petsc/-/compare/v3.24.5...v3.24.6?from_project_id=13882401).

## Conda Package Updates

### `moose-build 2026.04.21 [mpich,openmpi]`

- Transition `moose-mpi` package to `moose-build`, which contains just the compiler stack
- For Mac at runtime: require SDK 26.2, 15.5, 15.4, 15.2, 14.5, 14.2, or 13.3 to be stored in `/opt`, `/opt/conda-sdks/` or `~/sdks`
  - Needed due to incompatibility with current Conda compilers on Mac and SDK 26.4
- Use `-ld_classic` on mac instead of `-ld64` to remove deprecation warning
- Add `<PREFIX>/share/moose-mpi/scripts/get_mac_sdk.sh` script for downloading an appropriate version of the Mac SDK
- Use pinning from `conda/conda_build_config.yaml`

### `moose-pprof 2026.03.01_a15ffb7 build_0`

- Update pprof [`71be6bf...a15ffb7`](https://github.com/google/pprof/compare/71be6bfdd44051abe4dfbb7671d138363fb1f4a6...a15ffb7f9dccb95074ad153aef0f1fcbb01e61e3)
- Simplify build, using just go

### `moose-wasp 2025.09.19_02960f1 build_6`

- Simplify package, separating combined build with pyhit
- Simplify build environment, using compilers from `{{ compiler() }}`
- Pin from `conda/conda_build_config.yaml`
- Use ninja build
- Use host requirements where possible

### `moose-pyhit 2026.04.21 build_0`

- New package, separate from wasp build
- Simplify build environment, using  compilers from `{{ compiler() }}`
- Pin from `conda/conda_build_config.yaml`

### `moose-seacas 2025.10.14 build_3`

- Simplify build environment, using  compilers from `{{ compiler() }}`
- Pin from `conda/conda_build_config.yaml`
- Use build environment from conda where most possible

### `moose-tools 2026.04.21`

- Use pins from `conda/conda_build_config.yaml`

### `moose-petsc 3.24.6 [mpich,openmpi]_0`

- Update petsc [`v3.24.5..v3.24.6`](https://gitlab.com/petsc/petsc/-/compare/v3.24.5...v3.24.6?from_project_id=13882401)
- Use pinnings from `conda/conda_build_config.yaml`
- Remove dependency on `moose-mpi`
- Use compilers from `{{ compiler() }}` functions

### `moose-libmesh-vtk 9.6.1 [mpich,openmpi]_0`

- Update VTK to 9.6.1
- Use pinnings from `conda/conda_build_config.yaml`
- Remove dependency on `moose-mpi`
- Use compilers from `{{ compiler() }}` functions

### `moose-libmesh 2026.04.13_0185b8b [mpich,openmpi]_0`

- Use updated VTK from `moose-libmesh-vtk 9.6.1_0`
- Use updated PETSc from `moose-petsc 3.24.6_0`
- Update libmesh [`3463d95...0185b8b`](https://github.com/libMesh/libmesh/compare/3463d95d6dea40420478e6e1bea27269952d7fd3...0185b8b2a7e31300bdf020b323342c49030b8da0)
- Use pinnings from `conda/conda_build_config.yaml`
- Remove dependency on `moose-mpi`
- Use compilers from `{{ compiler() }}` functions

### `moose-dev 2026.04.21 [mpich,openmpi]`

- Remove dependency on `moose-mpi`, obtaining compilers from `moose-build` instead
- Use rebuilt wasp from `moose-wasp 2025.09.19_02960f1 build_6`
- Use updated PETSc from `moose-petsc 3.24.6 [mpich,openmpi]_0`
- Use updated VTK from `moose-libmesh-vtk 9.6.1 [mpich,openmpi]_0`
- Use updated libMesh from `moose-libmesh 2026.04.13_0185b8b [mpich,openmpi]_0`

## Apptainer Package Updates

### `moose-mpi:2026.04.21`

- Update base containers
- Update Intel OneAPI to 2025.3.3 for `intel` variant
- Update mpich to 5.0.1 for all variants except `intel` and `rocky9`
- Only source custom profile `/.singularity.d/moose_bashrc` once

### `moose-petsc:3.24.6_0`

- Use updated `moose-mpi:2026.04.21` container as base
- Update petsc [`v3.24.5..v3.24.6`](https://gitlab.com/petsc/petsc/-/compare/v3.24.5...v3.24.6?from_project_id=13882401)

### `moose-libmesh:2026.04.13_0185b8b_0`

- Use updated `moose-petsc:3.24.5_1` container as base
- Update VTK to 9.6.1
- Update libmesh [`3463d95...0185b8b`](https://github.com/libMesh/libmesh/compare/3463d95d6dea40420478e6e1bea27269952d7fd3...0185b8b2a7e31300bdf020b323342c49030b8da0)

### `moose-dev:2026.04.21`

- Use updated `moose-libmesh:2026.04.13_0185b8b_0` container as base
- Update code-server to 4.115.0
- Update gperftools for profiling build to 2.18.1
- Update go for gperftools build to 1.26.1
- Update miniforge to 26.1.1-3
- Update pytorch to 2.11.0
- Update mfem [`fa89c5e...64ef39b`](https://github.com/mfem/mfem/compare/fa89c5e98c873ae1fe1b5f24195e239edd151b25...64ef39bbe61ee5093a817026a2bb50314abafc25)
- Update conduit [`ad86e31...8543892`](https://github.com/LLNL/conduit/compare/ad86e316ad56a75c099d30ca5ce75cff275b5924...8543892a582737eb5941b1e90df068a75543df92)
- Have `code-server-start` source the custom bash profile in `/.singularity.d/moose_bashrc` if it exists
