# MOOSE Newsletter (December 2023)

## MOOSE Improvements

### Projected stateful material properties

The [ProjectedStatefulMaterialStorageAction](/ProjectedStatefulMaterialStorageAction.md)
action system has been added to MOOSE. The action allows users to specify material
properties that will be (componentwise) projected onto a finite element function basis
to store the old and older state of the properties.

This is an *alternative* way of keeping an old material property state, which permits
interpolation at new or changing quadrature point locations (encountered, for
example, with mortar contact or adaptivity). Both nodal as well as elemental basis
functions can be used for the projection. In the case of nodal (Lagrange) functions,
nodal patch recovery will be used to compute the nodal degrees of freedom.

### Transfers leveraging MeshDivisions

[MultiAppGeneralFieldTransfer.md] derived transfers can now use [MeshDivisions](syntax/MeshDivisions/index.md)
to:

- spatially restrict both origin and target domains,
- match either origin or target divided regions to an application (usually a child), and
- match mesh division regions with the same index in the source and target region.


### Distributing grid MeshDivisions using Positions

The [CartesianGridDivision.md], [CylindricalGridDivision.md] and [SphericalGridDivision.md]
can now be composed with a [Positions object](syntax/Positions/index.md) to distribute the centers
of several grids on the Positions. For example, this new capability can be used to define nested lattices.


## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements

- The [FileMeshGenerator.md] will now provide an adequate error message when encountering LFS pointers
  for the mesh file.