# MOOSE Newsletter (June 2023)

## MOOSE Improvements

### General axisymmetric coordinates

The `RZ` coordinate system was extended to enable using general coordinate axes.
Before this, the `RZ` coordinate system was limited in the following ways:

- The origin of the coordinate system was restricted to be $(0,0,0)$ only.
- The direction of the axisymmetric axis was restricted to be the $\hat{x}$ or $\hat{y}$ direction.
- Only a single axisymmetric coordinate system could be defined.

Now arbitrary axisymmetric coordinate systems may be specified on a
per-subdomain basis: for each subdomain using `RZ`, the axis origin and
direction are specified. See [Mesh/index.md#coordinate_systems] for more
information.

### Added HSCoupler2D3D component

The [HSCoupler2D3D.md] component was added to the
[Thermal Hydraulics module](modules/thermal_hydraulics/index.md). This component
fully couples a 2D heat structure boundary to a 3D heat structure boundary
via a simplified gap heat transfer formulation. Using this component can avoid
the need to create [MultiApps](MultiApps/index.md) for simulations solving
transient heat conduction between a 3D domain like an assembly matrix and
2D heat structure components. The main caveat is that the application needs to
be configured with a sufficient [AD](automatic_differentiation/index.md)
container size, due to coupling 2D elements to arbitrary numbers of 3D elements.
See the component documentation for more information.

### Fluid properties improvements

Several new function definitions were added in the fluid properties of the fluid properties module:

- for helium: specific energy computed from pressure and density
- for lead and lead-bismuth eutectic: temperature computed from pressure and enthalpy
- for tabulated fluid properties: temperature and density from pressure and specific entropy

For the sodium-potassium eutectic, the computation of temperature from pressure and enthalpy now relies
on an analytical inversion of the enthalpy equation rather than a Newton method-based solve.

### Projections in the auxiliary system

The [ProjectionAux.md] auxiliary kernel was created, replacing the `SelfAux` auxiliary kernel. It enables a variety
of projections for a variable, auxiliary or nonlinear, to an auxiliary variable that minimizes the L2-norm
of the difference.

It notably enables conversions, with a projection error, between variables with all their degrees of freedom
at nodes (for example linear Lagrange) and variables defined through degrees of freedom on the element (for example
a constant monomial).

## libMesh-level Changes

### `2023.06.19` Update

- Avoid using direct `new` calls or C-style casts in examples and
  unit tests
- `RBConstruction`: Re-throw exceptions on all procs in parallel
- Added `QBase::size()` for more generic algorithm compatibility
- Optimization of `LAGRANGE` Hex and especially `RATIONAL_BERNSTEIN`
  shape function and derivative evaluations
- Updated `reduced_basis` APIs, including vectorization of
  RBParameters values and optimization work
- `EquationSystems` I/O can now be done to any `istream`/`ostream`,
  not just directly to files; this is in support of future
  serialization improvements in MOOSE
- `FEAbstract::add_p_level_in_reinit()` API to allow `FE` objects
  to individually ignore `Elem` p-refinement levels; this is a
  prerequisite to p-refinement support in MOOSE
- Better error checking and handling in `ExodusII_IO` input and mesh
  stitching
- `EigenSystem` (as opposed to `CondensedEigenSystem` solves of
  constrained systems now throw errors, rather than risking returning
  non-physical eigenmodes
- Major bug fixes for certain triangulation refinement cases with
  `Poly2TriTriangulator`
- Assorted bug fixes
  - `all_second_order()` leaves untouched any elements in the range
    that are already second-order
  - build system console output cleaned up;
  - Fixes, workarounds to pass `-fsanitize=integer` builds
  - `CouplingMatrix` is now compatible with hundreds of thousands of
    variable fields
  - `Elem::key()` is now 64-bit for 64-bit `dof_id_type` builds,
    improving performance by reducing hash conflicts
  - `ExodusII_IO` output now handles matching sideset and shellface set ids
  - `DistributedMesh` can handle nodes being not-quite-orphaned by
    user code element deletion
  - Mesh copying and cloning now handles missing entries in boundary
    id to name maps, as well as better preserving partitioning
    settings

TIMPI changes:
- Fixes, workarounds to pass `-fsanitize=integer` builds: correct
  signed-vs-unsigned use, explicit casts when converting, etc.
- Test coverage for `vector<bool>` reductions, test updates to
  remove deprecated code
- Cleaner `vector<bool>` unpacking code

### `2023.06.23` Update

- Un-condensed Eigensystem solves of constrained systems now throw
  *warnings*, not errors, for the sake of downstream apps getting away
  with it so far.
- PETSc DM interface error messages now use proper format strings for
  32-bit builds too

## PETSc-level Changes

## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements

- [FillBetweenSidesetsGenerator.md] and
  [SideSetsFromPointsGenerator.md] are now compatible with
  DistributedMesh.
- SideSetsFromPointsGenerator now detects and cleanly errors if given a
  point that can only determine a sideset ambiguously.
- ElementDeletionGeneratorBase (used for [BlockDeletionGenerator.md]
  and [PlaneDeletionGenerator.md] now has a delete\_exteriors option,
  which can be set to false to retain the boundary elements of
  interior elements being deleted.
- [XYDelaunayGenerator.md] now detects and cleanly errors in all cases
  where users mistakenly selected a hole for both refinement and
  stitching.
- In the Navier Stokes finite volume implementation of weakly compressible flow,
  the user will now be able to compute face velocities on INITIAL by making the Rhie Chow
  interpolation default to a linear interpolation.
- Object documentation was added to the Thermal Hydraulics module for its materials, postprocessors,
  a closure, constraints, controls, auxiliary kernels, scalar auxkernels, initial conditions and actions.
- The object documentation index was re-organized with separate categories for [FunctorMaterials](syntax/FunctorMaterials/index.md),
  [ControlLogic](syntax/ControlLogic/index.md). Syntax documentation was added for [boundary conditions](syntax/BCs/index.md)
- A [LayeredExtremumMaterialProperty.md] user object was created to be able to compute extremum of material properties on spatial layers.
