# MOOSE Newsletter (March 2023)

## MOOSE Improvements

### Customized user object / postprocessor execution order

A new optional parameter `execution_order_group`, which expects an integer number, has been added.
All user objects in the same execution group will be executed in the same order as before (which
is now documented under [UserObjects/index.md]). All objects with the same `execution_order_group`
parameter value are executed in the same round (i.e. pass over the mesh), and groups with a lower
number are executed first. The default `execution_order_group` is 0 (zero). Negative values can be
specified to force user object execution *before* the default group, and positive values can be uses
to create execution groups that run *after* the default group. Execution order groups apply to all
`execute_on` flags specified for a given object.

## libMesh-level Changes

### `2023.03.02` Update

- Improvements to mesh redistribution

  - `ReplicatedMesh` and serialized `DistributedMesh` objects now also
    call `GhostingFunctor::redistribute()` callbacks (enabling
    communication of distributed data like MOOSE stateful materials on
    top of replicated mesh data).
  - GhostingFunctor code now supports (in deprecated builds) less
    strict behavior from subclasses.
  - Redundant calls to `redistribute()` in special cases have been
    combined.
  - `scatter_constraints()` now uses a more optimal data structure.
  - `send_coarse_ghosts()` and `redistribute()` now use the NBX
    parallel synchronization algorithm.  These had been the last two
    distributed algorithms in libMesh using older less-scalable
    MPI techniques.
  - Bug fix: in some use cases (including MOOSE applications using
    mesh refinement) libMesh could fail to properly synchronize
    changing nodeset definitions

- Side boundary ids now be set on child elements, not just coarse mesh
  elements, allowing for adaptive refinement of sidesets.
- Clearer error messages are now printed when a `parallel_only`
  assertion is failed.
- `subdomain_id` has been added to output when printing `Elem` info.
- `send_list` data is now properly prepared in all use cases.  This
  fixes Geometric MultiGrid compatibility with PETSc 3.18, and may
  give slight performance improvements elsewhere.
- A `System::has_constraint_object()` query API has been added.
- Bug fixes for msys2 / Windows builds, TIMPI `set_union` of maps with
  inconsistent values assigned to the same key, packed-range
  communication of pairs with fixed-size data and padding bytes.

### `2023.03.29` Update

- PetscVector local array behavior fixes
- Bezier extraction from ExodusII IsoGeometric Analysis meshes can now
  be done for a discontinuous mesh, if specified by user code; this is
  less efficient but much more flexible.
- ExodusII I/O support for lower-order edge blocks referring to
  higher-order edges
- HDF5 underlying Nemesis output is now a user-controllable option
- More assertions of parallel synchronization in
  `PetscNonlinearSolver`
- TIMPI updates:

  - Better error messages in cases where TIMPI assertions of users'
    parallel synchronization fail
  - `parallel_sync.h` algorithms now fully support rvalue data, and
    their behavior with local data is commented slightly better.
  - `Packing` specializations for container types now only exist if
    the container contents are entirely packable
  - Bug fixes for certain `Packing<tuple>` cases
  - Better test coverage

- MetaPhysicL updates:
  - Fixes for builds with `TIMPI` but without `MPI`
  - Fixes for many compiler warnings.  Warnings triggered by
    the `--enable-paranoid-warnings` configuration are now all fixed, that
    configuration is now enabled in MetaPhysicL whenever it is enabled
    in libMesh itself, and it is now tested for regressions in CI.

- Compiler warning fixes for libMesh builds with newer clang++

## VTK 9.2.6 (moose-libmesh-vtk)

- Bump VTK version 9.1.0 to 9.2.6. Fix issue involving relink on modern
  systems with latest libm.so:

  ```pre
  libmesh-vtk/lib/././libvtkkissfft-9.1.so.1' with `/lib64/libm.so.6' for IFUNC symbol `sincos'
  ```

## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements

- A [VectorPostprocessor parallel bug identified by ANL researchers](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/issues/23514), was fixed by [defaulting to asking for parallel synchronized VPP values](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/pull/23588).
