# MOOSE Newsletter (August 2023)

## MOOSE Improvements

### Fin heat transfer enhancement functor materials added

[FinEnhancementFactorFunctorMaterial.md] and [FinEfficiencyFunctorMaterial.md]
were added, which are [functor materials](FunctorMaterials/index.md) that are
used to compute the enhancement in convective heat transfer due to the presence
of fins or other extended surfaces on a surface. The former computes the factor by
which the bare-surface boundary condition should be multiplied to account for
the fins, and the latter provides a definition of the fin efficiency, which is
an input to the former.

### Generating images on-the-fly in MooseDocs

The [media extension](MooseDocs/extensions/media.md) now supports generating an
image on-the-fly with a python plot script. This is useful for frequently-regenerated
plots such as assessment results, which is undesirable to repeatedly modify in
a git repository. See [MooseDocs/extensions/media.md#using-plot-script] for details
and an example.

### Functor Neumann boundary condition

[FunctorNeumannBC.md] was added, which implements a Neumann boundary condition
with an imposed [functor](Functors/index.md) and optional functor coefficient.

### Cylindrical gap heat flux functor material

[CylindricalGapHeatFluxFunctorMaterial.md] was added to compute the heat flux
across a cylindrical gap, based on the surface radii, temperatures, and emissivities,
as well as the gap thermal conductivity, all provided via [functors](Functors/index.md). Note that this
approach differs from existing approaches in the [heat conduction module](modules/heat_conduction/index.md)
due to having the gap distance be based on user input rather than mesh information.
This makes it ideal for situations in which one of the surfaces is 2D, or if
thermal expansion is provided as a direct user model instead of having the mesh
be deformable. Additionally, the use of functors makes this model very flexible.

### Nearest-point layered side averages for functors

[LayeredSideIntegralFunctor.md], [LayeredSideAverageFunctor.md], and
[NearestPointLayeredSideAverageFunctor.md] have been added, which extend
[LayeredSideIntegral.md], [LayeredSideAverage.md], and
[NearestPointLayeredSideAverage.md] to accept any [functor](Functors/index.md),
not just variables.

### Post-processors can now be used in functor parameters

Post-processors can now be used in [functor](Functors/index.md) parameters, so functor
parameters now support the following inputs, allowing for great flexibility:

- variables (both regular and aux)
- functions
- [functor material properties](FunctorMaterials/index.md)
- post-processors

### Component to apply heat flux from an external application

The component [HSBoundaryExternalAppHeatFlux.md] was created in the
[thermal hydraulics module](modules/thermal_hydraulics/index.md) for applying
a heat flux to a heat structure boundary from a variable transferred from
another application.

### Parsed functor material

[ParsedFunctorMaterial.md] was added, which creates a [functor material property](FunctorMaterials/index.md)
with a user-defined mathematical expression of [functors](Functors/index.md),
the spatial point, and the time.

### Time interval times

The [Times/index.md] object [TimeIntervalTimes.md] was added, which allows the
user to specify times between a start time and end time using a time interval. This is
useful for specifying an output interval via [!param](/Outputs/CSV/sync_times_object)
to avoid having to manually list out all times in [!param](/Outputs/CSV/sync_times).

### Mesh repairs during the mesh generation / loading phase

The [MeshRepairGenerator.md] was created to perform simple fixes on the mesh, such as stitching
overlapping nodes, flipping negative volume elements, separating elements of a different type in
distinct subdomains. Additional operations will be implemented in this object and activated
with their respective parameter.

## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements

- The [ParsedGenerateSideset.md] is now capable of selecting only external sides when creating new sidesets,
  in addition to being able to look at element & neighbor subdomains and evaluating complex parsed expressions.
- The [SolutionUserObject.md] error messages and parameter documentation were improved to guide
  the user when using checkpoint files to store the solution.
- Disclaimers were added to the [SideDiffusiveFluxAverage.md] and [DiffusionFluxAux.md] documentation to warn
  the user that the diffusive flux calculated by these postprocessing tools are only exact if the diffusive
  flux discretization is the same between the user's kernels and these tools.
- The parameter [!param](/Outputs/CSV/sync_times_object) in outputs was not forcing
  solution to occur at these times, which has been fixed.
