# MOOSE Newsletter (February 2023)

## MOOSE Improvements

### New MultiApp general field transfers

General field transfers have been added to the framework. They are a re-implementation of existing transfers with additional functionalities,
based on libMesh's [generic projector](https://mooseframework.inl.gov/docs/doxygen/libmesh/classlibMesh_1_1GenericProjector.html). The [documentation for the base class](MultiAppGeneralFieldTransfer.md)
explains all the features (siblings transfers, spatial restrictions, higher order variables, etc.) which are supported. The specific instances implemented are:

- [MultiAppGeneralFieldShapeEvaluationTransfer.md]
- [MultiAppGeneralFieldNearestNodeTransfer.md]
- [MultiAppGeneralFieldUserObjectTransfer.md]


Two additional execution flags (`execute_on`) have been added to MOOSE: `MULTIAPP_FIXED_POINT_BEGIN` and `MULTIAPP_FIXED_POINT_END`. These execution schedules are
executed once at the beginning and the end of the fixed point iterations between MultiApps, respectively, and are related to the fixed point iterations between
the current app and its subapps, *not between the current app and its parent app*. A few notable uses for these flags include:

- limiting the transfer of one field to once per time step during a fixed point iteration. The field will not be part of the tight coupling and will effectively be
  lagged during the fixed point iterations

- performing fixed point iterations with one app and not the other. The MultiApp executed on `MULTIAPP_FIXED_POINT_BEGIN/END` will only be executed once,
  while the other MultiApp will be executed on each fixed point iteration.

### New parameter: transform a MultiApp frame of reference

A new parameter has been added to all MultiApps to execute them in a transformed frame of reference: [!param](/MultiApps/FullSolveMultiApp/run_in_position).
This will apply the coordinate transformation (rotations and scaling defined in the MultiApp `[Mesh]` block, and translation from the
[!param](/MultiApps/FullSolveMultiApp/positions) parameter) to the MultiApps' mesh. Unless a coordinate transformation is also specified in the
parent app's `[Mesh]` block, this parameter makes the child and parent app execute in the same frame of reference.

### Ability to rename parameters in derived objects and new deprecation APIs

We have added the ability to rename a parameter, using the `renameParam`/`renameCoupledVar` APIs on
an `InputParameters` object. This is meant to be used by
derived classes in `validParams` to give more specificity than that granted by
more general base class parameter names. The APIs take three arguments, the
first being the old/base-class parameter name, the second being the
new/derived-class parameter name, and the third being the new documentation
string for the renamed parameter.

New deprecation APIs have also been added to `InputParameters` that use the same
underlying machinery that the `renameParam`/`renameCoupledVar` APIs use. The new
deprecation APIs are `deprecateParam` and `deprecateCoupledVar`. These APIs also
take three arguments, with the difference from the `rename*` APIs being that the
third argument is a string corresponding to the `removal_date` instead of a
documentation string.

An example of use of the new deprecation APIs is in `ParsedAux::validParams`:

```language=c++
  params.addRequiredCustomTypeParam<std::string>(
      "function", "FunctionExpression", "Parsed function expression to compute");
  params.deprecateParam("function", "expression", "02/07/2024");
  params.addCoupledVar("args", "Vector of coupled variable names");
  params.deprecateCoupledVar("args", "coupled_variables", "02/07/2024");
```

When the deprecation period is over the code-block can be simplified by simply
swapping the new name into the deprecated name and removing the deprecation
calls:

```language=c++
  params.addRequiredCustomTypeParam<std::string>(
      "expression", "FunctionExpression", "Parsed function expression to compute");
  params.addCoupledVar("coupled_variables", "Vector of coupled variable names");
```

The machinery underlying the new `rename` and `deprecate` APIs allows object
code to simply use the new names as opposed to checking for both deprecated/base-class and
new/blessed parameters. For instance this code in the `ParsedAux` constructor

```language=c++
  if (isCoupled("args"))
    for (std::size_t i = 0; i < _nargs; ++i)
    {
      auto * const field_var = getFieldVar("args", i);
      variables += (i == 0 ? "" : ",") + field_var->name();
    }
  else
    for (std::size_t i = 0; i < _nargs; ++i)
    {
      auto * const field_var = getFieldVar("coupled_variables", i);
      variables += (i == 0 ? "" : ",") + field_var->name();
    }
```

has now simplified to

```language=c++
  for (std::size_t i = 0; i < _nargs; ++i)
    variables += (i == 0 ? "" : ",") + getFieldVar("coupled_variables", i)->name();
```

As a final note, deprecation messages printed to the screen should be
improved. The location of the use of the deprecated parameter in the file is now
printed, and we no longer print the stack trace. The latter finished in frames related
to the `Parser` class, which is of no use to the user in resolving their
deprecated parameter use.

### Post-processor added to query solid properties

[ThermalSolidPropertiesPostprocessor.md] was added to the
[solid properties module](modules/solid_properties/index.md), which allows
users to query a given property from a [ThermalSolidProperties.md] object
at a temperature given by a post-processor value.

### Improved the ability to mark the converged solution invalid

We have improved the recently-added capability that allows a user to [mark a solution as "invalid"](source/problems/SolutionInvalidity.md). Once marked invalid, the system allows output of which object triggered the invalidity as well as how many times the warning occurs. An invalid solution means that the solution somehow does not satisfy requirements, such as a value being out of the bounds of a correlation.  Solutions are allowed to be invalid *during* the nonlinear solve - but are not allowed to be invalid once it converges. A "converged" solution that is marked as invalid will cause MOOSE to behave as if the solution did NOT converge - including cutting back timesteps, etc. A macro, `flagInvalidSolution`, is provided to declare a solution as "invalid". The macro allows for a user-defined short description of the object (optional) and a message to describe the invalidity.

### Performance Improvements for Navier-Stokes Finite Volume Simulations

The automatic porosity jump handling feature introduced in the last newsletter
slowed down Navier-Stokes finite volume simulations. A representative example
was the mixing length channel test in the incompressible finite volume test
suite, which went from a run-time of ~100 seconds to ~121 seconds on a
twice-refined mesh. To combat this slowing, we introduced several optimizations
including:

- Building a boundary ID to Dirichlet boundary condition map during the
  simulation's initial setup as opposed to querying for boundary conditions
  every time a new face is visited
- Disabling pre-initialized data computation when only the on-the-fly functor
  system is used
- Caching the degree of freedom indices and re-using them when the same element
  is repeatedly visited

With these changes, the same mixing length test (twice refined) reduced its
run-time to ~83 seconds, a 20% improvement over the pre-porosity-jump treatment behavior,
and a 45% improvement over the post-porosity-jump treatment behavior.

## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements

- `SimpleFluidProperties` has been further developed to better support the (specific volume, specific energy)
  variable set used in the thermal_hydraulics module.
- The HFEM flavor using Lagrange multipliers on lower-dimensional elements now
  supports distributed meshes.
- The [Bounds system](Bounds/index.md) was extended from supporting only first order Lagrange variables to also
  supporting constant monomial variables, including support for finite volume variables.