# MOOSE Newsletter (November 2023)

## MOOSE Improvements

### MeshDivisions system to split the mesh in arbitrary ways

The [MeshDivisions](syntax/MeshDivisions/index.md) system has been added to MOOSE.
It was released with a number of simple examples, including [SubdomainsDivision.md] for a block ID-based
division of the mesh and the [CartesianGridDivision.md] for a Cartesian grid-numbering overlaid on top
of the mesh.
It is intended to be able to specify arbitrary mappings in transfers between applications.
For now, the new system can be used for arbitrary reduction operations over the mesh divisions using the
[MeshDivisionFunctorReductionVectorPostprocessor.md] mostly for postprocessing purposes.

### Coordinate transformations during transfers between applications

General coordinate transformations between applications have been implemented in the
[MultiAppGeneralField](MultiAppGeneralFieldTransfer.md)-derived transfers. This enables transfers between
from RZ to XYZ geometries, for example, or accounting for arbitrary rotations (defined in the `[Mesh]` blocks)
when transferring between applications.

### Changes to Darcy/Forchheimer friction

We have changed the way that users should formulate Darcy and Forchheimer
friction coefficients for simulating friction flows with the finite-volume
Navier-Stokes classes. Information about the new formulation can be found in the
relevant friction kernel, [PINSFVMomentumFriction.md]. We have also introduced a
real example of a class that computes Darcy and Forchheimer friction
coefficients, [FunctorErgunDragCoefficients.md].

### Selective exclusion of finite element families for p-refinement

Users may now selectively exclude finite element families from
p-refinement. This allows a use case such as a discontinuous Galerkin
discretization for the "nonlinear" variables and Lagrange-based auxiliary
variables for data transfers. In this example the user may want to exclude the
Lagrange family from p-refinement while p-refining the monomial or L2 Lagrange
nonlinear variable. Families to exclude are controlled using the
`disable_p_refinement_for_families` parameter in the `Adaptivity` block. By
default, all non-hierarchic finite element families are excluded from
p-refinement.

### Custom eigen normalizations

Users may now provide a custom normalization to their eigen solves using the
[!param](/Problem/EigenProblem/bx_norm) parameter. This is the last piece that
the "new" SLEPc-based eigen system needed to emulate the native MOOSE-based
eigen system. With this addition, the native MOOSE implementation may be removed
in the future.

## libMesh-level Changes

### `2023.11.06` Update

- Added low-order `RAVIART_THOMAS` finite element support, including
  general H(div) mapping support for future divergence-conforming
  finite element families.  Added `L2_RAVIART_THOMAS` support for the
  broken/L2 version of that space.  Example codes for each, using mixed
  and hybridized formulations.
- Option to remove a boundary id globally from a mesh without
  re-preparing it afterward
- Option to merge subdomains when stitching meshes based on inspection
  of both subdomain ids and subdomain names
- Better matching of input file ids when reading Abaqus files
- Fixes for independent control over which variables see p-refinement
- Added `QBase::clone()` method
- Added parameter for user-supplied hash when doing Just-In-Time
  compilation with fparser
- Added `Packing` specializations for `Eigen` matrices; this enables
  parallel communication of these classes and of many derived types
  including them.
- Bug fixes for nodal interpolation of rational elements; this
  corrects an error in VTK output of many IsoGeometric Analysis mesh
  results.
- Bug fix for overzealous caching of rational elements' shape
  functions.  This corrects an error in computation on many
  IsoGeometric Analysis meshes
- Bug fixes for refinement of Tet14 elements.
- More robust `reduced_basis` EIM error indicator calculations
- Higher-order default quadrature choice in integration-based error
  estimators and error indicators, avoiding underintegration on
  superconvergent results
- Removal of Fortran/C++ detection for HDF5 libraries, so we can more
  easily find the desired C HDF5 library we do use.
- Upgrade to latest autotools versions in libMesh, TIMPI, and
  MetaPhysicL
- Update VTK compatibility to support VTK 9.3
- GCC warning workarounds to allow --enable-werror builds with -Wextra
  in GCC 13
- Minor refactoring in Threads/PerfLog interactions
- More parallel synchronization assertions during System setup and
  update operations
- Minor fixes to documentation, comments, and unit tests, including
  VexCL-enabled unit tests of MetaPhysicL

### `2023.11.29` Update

- `enum_to_string` and `string_to_enum` now initialize their maps via
  static constructors, so they (and functions which depend on them,
  like `Elem::get_info()` are now thread-safe.
- Added `FEInterface::is_hierarchic()` shim.
- Added `TypeTensor<T>::column()` extraction method.
- Added `L2_LAGRANGE_VEC` finite element family, providing a space
  which locally matches `LAGRANGE_VEC` but which is discontinuous
  between elements.
- Configure option `--with-xdr-include`, to make it easier to build
  on systems with XDR support in non-default locations.
- Configure now detects non-default $CC from PETSc when possible.
- Configure now adds compiler flags to enable safe use of
  Floating-Point Exceptions, even with newer clang/clang++ and
  optimization enabled.
- Support for reads of ExodusII meshes with the `WEDGE6` element string.
- Support for Metis partitioning of meshes with overlapping nodes or
  elements even with `unique_id()` disabled.
- Updated to newer Nanoflann, switched to git submodule
- PETSc now uses VecGhostGetGhostIS instead of
  VecGetLocalToGlobalMapping for more efficiency on newer PETSc
  versions.
- Bugfix and test coverage for recent bug in reads of Abaqus meshes
  with element sets.
- Bugfix and test coverage for XDR writes of refined meshes with extra
  element integers.
- Fixes for `reduced_basis` EIM features.
- Fixes for example codes triggering GCC 13 warnings.

## PETSc-level Changes

### PETSc updated to 3.20.1

The `moose-petsc` package has been updated alongside the PETSc submodule to version 3.20.1. To update
your older MOOSE environment to include this change, please activate your MOOSE conda environment and
perform the command:

```
mamba install moose-dev=2023.11.30
```

The MOOSE package versions and builds included in this environment version are the following:

```
Package                  Version           Build
===================================================
moose-dev                2023.11.30        build_0
moose-libmesh            2023.11.29        build_0
moose-libmesh-vtk        9.2.6             build_8
moose-mpich              4.0.2             build_15
moose-peacock            2023.11.29        hb4c3223_0
moose-petsc              3.20.1            build_0
moose-tools              2023.11.28        hd1db04d_0
moose-wasp               2023.11.29        build_0
```

## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements

- A DirichletBC leveraging functors was added for finite element variables: [FunctorDirichletBC.md].
  This helps create arbitrary couplings between variables at boundary conditions.
- The ability to evaluate functors defined on the other side of a boundary was added to the
  [FVFunctorDirichletBC.md]. This helps connect two volumes together where variables connected
  through Dirichlet boundary conditions are defined on two separate subdomains.
- The [MultiAppCopyTransfer.md] now supports transfer of vector variables.
