# ConcentricCircleMesh

!syntax description /Mesh/ConcentricCircleMesh

## Description

The `ConcentricCircleMesh` object is to generate meshes for concentric circles. Particularly, it would be useful to generate 2D meshes for typical LWR fuels. Users can refine meshes by providing a higher number of rings for each specified concentric circle region or a higher number of sectors in each quadrant. The test, [concentric_circle_mesh.i](test/tests/mesh/cconcentric_circle_mesh/concentric_circle_mesh.i), explains the use of the 'ConcentricCircleMesh' object. To execute the test only for generating 2D meshes,

```bash
~/projects/moose/test/moose_test-opt -i concentric_circle_mesh.i --mesh-only
```

To execute the test with the engineering and mathematical physics solvers,

```bash
~/projects/moose/test/moose_test-opt -i concentric_circle_mesh.i
```

!alert note
Be aware: `ConcentricCircleMesh` only works with the ReplicatedMesh type.

### More Information

`ConcentricCircleMesh` works by creating the first quadrant called "top_right." MooseEnum called portion controls which portion of meshes is generated. Any other one-fourth portions of circles are generated by rotating the "top_right" portion. Half portions are generated by stitching two different one-fourth portions depending on users' usages.

Users must provide the input parameters such as a number of sectors in a quadrant, a list of radii, a list of rings, the inner mesh fraction, a boolean for the volume preserving function.
* list of radii: specific locations of radii of concentric circles
* list of rings: numbers of rings for concentric circles
* inner mesh fraction: ratio of the length of the inner square to the radius of the innermost circle mesh
* volume for concentric circles can be preserved or not (on/off).

Users can choose if meshes for the moderator are added to meshes for concentric circles or not. A portion can be specified, however, it is not required. The default setting generates the full concentric circles.

## Developer Information

If you're going to enhance `ConcentricCircleMesh,` may be developing the windmill approach for the moderator might be necessary. New algorithms for adding nodes and elements, including the connectivity, may be needed. They can be found in `ConcentricCircleMesh.C`. The smoothing method can be incorporated to the developed meshes.  

## Example Syntax

!listing test/tests/mesh/concentric_circle_mesh/concentric_circle_mesh.i

!syntax parameters /Mesh/ConcentricCircleMesh

!syntax inputs /Mesh/ConcentricCircleMesh

!syntax children /Mesh/ConcentricCircleMesh
