# ConcentricCircleMeshGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/ConcentricCircleMeshGenerator

## Overview

!style halign=left
The `ConcentricCircleMeshGenerator` object is used to generate a 2D mesh for concentric circles.
Users can refine the mesh by providing a high number of rings for each specified concentric circle
region or a high number of sectors in each quadrant. The test, [concentric_circle_mesh_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/concentric_circle_mesh_generator/concentric_circle_mesh_generator.i),
explains the use of the `ConcentricCircleMeshGenerator` object. To execute the test, only generating
a 2D mesh:

```bash
~/projects/moose/test/moose_test-opt -i concentric_circle_mesh_generator.i --mesh-only
```

To execute the test with the engineering and mathematical physics solvers:

```bash
~/projects/moose/test/moose_test-opt -i concentric_circle_mesh2.i
```

!alert note
Be aware: `ConcentricCircleMeshGenerator` only works with Replicated meshes.

### More Information

!style halign=left
`ConcentricCircleMeshGenerator` works by creating the first quadrant, called "top_right." An input
parameter, called [!param](/Mesh/ConcentricCircleMeshGenerator/portion), controls which portion of
mesh would be generated. Any other one-fourth portions of circles are generated by rotating the
"top_right" portion. Half portions are generated by stitching two different one-fourth portions
depending on users' preference.

Users must provide the input parameters, such as:

- number of azimuthal sectors in a quadrant
- list of radii: specific locations of radii of concentric circles
- list of rings: numbers of rings for concentric circles
- inner mesh fraction: ratio of the length of the inner square to the radius of the innermost circle mesh
- whether the volume for concentric circles should be preserved or not (true/false)
- iteration number: number of iterations for Laplace smoothing

Users can choose if the mesh for the enclosing square is added to the concentric circle mesh or not.
A portion can be specified, however, it is not required. The default setting generates the full
concentric circles.

## Developer Information

!style halign=left
If one needs to enhance `ConcentricCircleMeshGenerator,` Laplace smoothing has to be constrained to
the center circle. Efficient algorithms for adding nodes and elements, including the connectivity,
may be needed. They can be found in `ConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.C`.

## Example Syntax

!listing test/tests/meshgenerators/concentric_circle_mesh_generator/concentric_circle_mesh_generator.i block=Mesh

!syntax parameters /Mesh/ConcentricCircleMeshGenerator

!syntax inputs /Mesh/ConcentricCircleMeshGenerator

!syntax children /Mesh/ConcentricCircleMeshGenerator
