# MeshLineCutter

!syntax description /Mesh/MeshLineCutter

## Overview

The `MeshLineCutter` is used to trim off a fraction of the input mesh which is located on one side of a given straight line. The input mesh, which is given by [!param](/Mesh/MeshLineCutter/input), must be a 2D mesh in the XY-plane and only contain TRI3 and QUAD4 elements. The cutting straight line is provided by [!param](/Mesh/MeshLineCutter/cut_line_params), which is a vector of three `Real` type values, which are $a$, $b$, and $c$ in the line equation $ax+by+c=0$. This mesh generator remove the part of the mesh that matches $ax+by+c>0$. The trimmed mesh is processed to ensure a smooth cross-section instead of a "zigzag" cross-section as generated by [`PlaneDeletionGenerator`](/PlaneDeletionGenerator.md).

The methods can be used to by this mesh generator to achieve the mesh cutting: the "Element Cutting" (`CUT_ELEM`) method and the "Node Moving" (`MOV_NODE`) method, which can be selected through [!param](/Mesh/MeshLineCutter/cutting_type). The `MOV_NODE` method is the same method used by [`HexagonMeshTrimmer`](/HexagonMeshTrimmer.md) and [`CartesianMeshTrimmer`](/CartesianMeshTrimmer.md). That is, the nodes near the cutting line are moved to the cutting line to ensure the smoothness of the cross-section. On the other hand, the `CUT_ELEM` method first converts all the QUAD4 elements crossed by the cutting line into pairs of TRI3 elements. Then all the TRI3 elements crossed by the cutting line are further split into two or three TRI elements with a division matching the cutting line.

The two methods have their own Cons and Pros, respectively, and are complementary to each other. The `CUT_ELEM` method keeps all the subdomain interfaces and even preserved the volume of the subdomains. However, it may leads to some extraneously fine elements near the cutting line. On the other hand, the `MOV_NODE` method does not produce too fine elements but may deform the subdomain interfaces. Therefore, if only one subdomain is involved in the cutting, or all the cut subdomain interfaces are symmetric over the cutting line, the `MOv_NODE` method is preferred. On the other hand, of complex subdomain interfaces are involved in the cutting, the `CUT_ELEM` method is preferred.

## Example Syntax

!listing test/tests/meshgenerators/mesh_line_cutter/simple_cut.i block=Mesh/mlc

!syntax description /Mesh/MeshLineCutter

!syntax parameters /Mesh/MeshLineCutter

!syntax inputs /Mesh/MeshLineCutter

!syntax children /Mesh/MeshLineCutter
