framework/doc/content/source/meshgenerators/TransfiniteMeshGenerator.md, before:

# TransfiniteMeshGenerator

The `TransfiniteMeshGenerator` produces two-dimensional meshes from a set of 4 corner vertices by interpolating the edges into the inner domain. The resulting mesh  consists of QUAD4 elements of aspect ratio and skewness determined by the points on the boundary edges.

!syntax description /Mesh/TransfiniteMeshGenerator

## Overview

!media media/meshgenerators/quad_convention.png style=float:right;width:20%;margin-left:2%; caption=Fig. 1: Convention for the corner vertices order.

Given a set of 4 corners the TransfiniteMeshGenerator constructs by default the straight edges that connect the vertices and fills up the interior with straight lines. The test, [quadrilater_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/quadrilater_generator.i),
illustrates the use of the `TransfiniteMeshGenerator` object to construct general quadrilaterals. The convention for the corners numbering should follow Fig. 1, prescribed in the order +(0,0) - (0,1) - (1,1) - (1,0)+. The direction along edges, important in case they are user provided using the DISCRETE option, should follow the direction in Fig. 1.

This generator allows any type of curvilinear edges. In Fig. 2 we show a mesh where the bottom edge has an inward arc circle. However, this algorithm generates a mesh for any parametrized edge, or given set of points on an edge. For arcs of a circle, since they are widely encounterened in applications, we customized an approach that requires from an user to specify only the deviation from a straight line in the middle of an edge. 

The distribution of points on an edge can be either provided as a discrete set of points, using the edge type `DISCRETE`, or as a bias along the edge. The only requirement is that opposite edges have the same number of points.

!media media/meshgenerators/mesharc.png style=float:right;margin:2%;width:30%; caption=Fig. 2: A quadrilateral with one edge on an arc circle.

## Example 


This mesh generator considers 4 types of edges defined in `edge_type`, where `edge` is either left, right, top or bottom.


- `LINE`, constructs a line between provided corner vertices
- `ARCCIRC`, constructs an arc of a circle and requires an additional parameter, the distance at the middle of an edge between a straight line and the arc of circle desired. The edge is then generated by computing the middle point on the edge, which could be also obtained from a QUAD8 element from a mesh generator (if this capability is desired by a user please address the developers, as it is easy to adjust) 
- `DISCRETE`, constructs a line along a set of points provided by the user in the order represented by arrows in Fig. 1, a test is available as [discrete_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/discrete_generator.i).
- `PARSED`, constructs a curvilinear edge as provided by a parametrization chosen by the user.


Each edge type may require additional parameters specified as `edge_parameter`, unless the edge is a line. For an arc circle and the deviation from a straight line is set by convention to be positive if the arc circle is outward, or negative if inward, as in Fig. 2, see test [arccircle_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/arccircle_generator.i)


Two opposite sides need to have the same number of points, and we consider top-bottom edges to have `nx` points, and left-right edges `ny` points. By default they are taken to be equidistant, unless the user specifies a distancing via the parameters `bias_x` or `bias_y`.


!syntax parameters /Mesh/TransfiniteMeshGenerator

!syntax inputs /Mesh/TransfiniteMeshGenerator

!syntax children /Mesh/TransfiniteMeshGenerator

Commit message:

finished doc, moved figs to large_media refs #21903

framework/doc/content/source/meshgenerators/TransfiniteMeshGenerator.md, after:

# TransfiniteMeshGenerator

The `TransfiniteMeshGenerator` produces two-dimensional meshes from a set of 4 corner vertices by interpolating the edges into the inner domain. The resulting mesh  consists of QUAD4 elements of aspect ratio and skewness determined by the points on the boundary edges.

!syntax description /Mesh/TransfiniteMeshGenerator

## Overview

!media media/meshgenerators/quad_convention.png style=float:right;width:20%;margin-left:2%; caption=Fig. 1: Convention for the corner vertices order.

Given a set of 4 corners the TransfiniteMeshGenerator constructs by default the straight edges that connect the vertices and fills up the interior with straight lines. The test, [quadrilater_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/quadrilater_generator.i),
illustrates the use of the `TransfiniteMeshGenerator` object to construct general quadrilaterals as in Fig. 2. By default the distribution of points along edges is considered equidistant, unless specified otherwise by the user using the parameters `bias_x` or `bias_y`. The core of the algorithm interpolates/fills up the inner domain for any edge type, curved, parametrized, discrete. The current implementation considers all these cases with special attention given to arcs of a circle which are widely encountered in scientific computing applications. 

The convention for the corners numbering should follow Fig. 1, prescribed in the order +(0,0) - (0,1) - (1,1) - (1,0)+. The direction along edges, important if the user provides them using the DISCRETE option, should follow the direction of the arrows as in Fig. 1.

!media large_media/framework/meshgenerators/transfinite_quadrilateral_sm.png style=float:right;margin:2%;width:30%; caption=Fig. 2: A quadrilateral with one edge on an arc circle.

This generator allows any type of curvilinear edges. In Fig. 2 we show a mesh where the bottom edge has an inward arc circle. However, this algorithm generates a mesh for any parametrized edge, or given set of points on an edge. For arcs of a circle, since they are widely encountered in applications, we customized an approach that requires a user to specify only the deviation from a straight line in the middle of an edge. 

The distribution of points on an edge can be either provided as a discrete set of points, using the edge type `DISCRETE`, or as a bias along the edge. The only requirement is that opposite edges have the same number of points.

## Example 

!media large_media/framework/meshgenerators/transfinite_arccircle_annular_sm.png style=float:right;margin:2%;width:20%; caption=Fig. 3: A quadrilateral with one edge on an arc circle.


This mesh generator considers 4 types of edges defined in `edge_type`, where `edge` is either left, right, top or bottom.

  - `LINE`, constructs a line between provided corner vertices.

  - `CIRCARC`, constructs an arc of a circle and requires an additional parameter, named `edge_parameter`. This parameter can be the distance at the middle of an edge between a straight line and the arc of circle desired, as in the test [arccircle_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/arcircle_generator.i). The edge is then generated by computing the middle point on the edge. The deviation from a straight line is set by convention to be positive if the arc circle is outward, or negative if inward, in this fashion the user can specify different orientations. 
  The midpoint could also be obtained from a QUAD8 element as provided by an external mesh generator and inserted as input by the user in the same  `edge_parameter`, as in the test [arccircle_midpoint_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/arcircle_midpoint_generator.i).


!media large_media/framework/meshgenerators/transfinite_discrete_arccircle_sm.png style=float:right;margin:2%;width:25%; caption=Fig. 4: A quadrilateral with one edge on an arc circle.

  - `DISCRETE`, constructs a line along a set of points provided by the user in the order represented by arrows in Fig. 1, a test is available in [discrete_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/discrete_generator.i) and illustrated in Fig. 4. This option is the only one that does not support a different point redistribution since it is assumed the user desires those edge points explicitely. Along an edge described by this option the `bias_x` and `bias_y` parameters will have no effect. 

  - `PARSED`, constructs a curvilinear edge as provided by a parametrization chosen by the user. The test [parsed_generator.i](test/tests/meshgenerators/transfinite_generator/parsed_generator.i) constructs a stenotic pipe using the parametrization of the top and bottom edges. The only requirement the user needs to take into account is to map the parametrization to the reference interval `[0, 1]`. 


!media large_media/framework/meshgenerators/transfinite_parsed_bias_sm.png style=float:right;margin:2%;width:30%; caption=Fig. 5: A quadrilateral with one edge on an arc circle.

Since opposite sides need to have the same number of points, we consider top-bottom edges to have `nx` points, and left-right edges `ny` points. By default they are taken to be equidistant, unless the user specifies a distancing via the parameters `bias_x` or `bias_y`. Different point distributions can propagate on curvilinear edges, generating domains as in Fig. 5. Note that the bias across an edge is implemented as propapagted by the parametrization, so for a parametrized edge $x(r),\ y(r)$ the bias is constructed first for the parameter $r$ and propagated as the parametrized edge is generated. 



!syntax parameters /Mesh/TransfiniteMeshGenerator

!syntax inputs /Mesh/TransfiniteMeshGenerator

!syntax children /Mesh/TransfiniteMeshGenerator
