# XYZDelaunayGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator

An input mesh will be used to define the outer boundary of a
generated tetrahedral output mesh.  Additional interior vertices can
be automatically generated by specifying a desired tetrahedral volume.
Additional interior boundary "holes" can be specified by the mesh
generators specified in the [!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/holes)
vector parameter.

Each input mesh, as specified in the
[!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/boundary) parameter and optionally
in the [!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/holes) parameter,
can define a closed manifold of boundary triangles either by including
Tri3 elements for each triangle or by including volume elements whose
external faces comprise the boundary manifold.

If multiple disconnected manifolds exist in a boundary mesh, only the
manifold enclosing the rest of the mesh is considered to be "the"
boundary.  Input meshes which are not connected, which therefore have
multiple outer boundary manifolds, are not yet supported.

Nodes internal to the boundary mesh are currently ignored.  Future
expansions of this class may allow such nodes to be retained as nodes
in the output tetrahedralization.

Using stitching options, meshes used as "holes" can subsequently be
stitched into those portions of the output mesh.

Interior vertices can be adjusted after mesh generation using the
[!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/smooth_triangulation) parameter,
to produce a more "smooth" mesh, but currently the only mesh smoother
option is a simple Laplacian smoother; this can have unwanted
side-effects on meshes with concave boundaries or poor nodal valences,
and so it is disabled by default for robustness.

The elements generated by `XYZDelaunayGenerator` can be refined according
to a given uniform element volume specified as
[!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/desired_volume).
This refinement is currently controlled by the third-party Netgen
code.

!syntax parameters /Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator

!syntax inputs /Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator


