# XYZDelaunayGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator

An input mesh will be used to define the outer boundary of a
generated tetrahedral output mesh.  Additional interior vertices can
be automatically generated by specifying a desired tetrahedral volume.
Additional interior boundary "holes" can be specified by the mesh
generators specified in the [!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/holes)
vector parameter.

Each input mesh, as specified in the
[!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/boundary) parameter and optionally
in the [!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/holes) parameter,
can define a closed manifold of boundary triangles.

The [!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/boundary) input mesh can either
include 2D surface elements or 3D volume elements whose external faces
comprise the boundary manifold. If the [!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/boundary)
input mesh contains volume elements with non-Tri3 surface sides or
non-Tri3 surface elements, they can be converted automatically by this
mesh generator.

The [!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/holes) input mesh can contain
either all 3D volume elements, or all 2D surface elements.
If one of the [!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/holes)
meshes contains non-Tri3 surface elements, or volume elements with non-Tri3
side elements on its external surface, the non-Tri3 elements are converted
automatically to facilitate mesh generation.

If multiple disconnected manifolds exist in a boundary mesh, only the
manifold enclosing the rest of the mesh is considered to be "the"
boundary.  Input meshes which are not connected, which therefore have
multiple outer boundary manifolds, are not yet supported.

Nodes internal to the boundary mesh are currently ignored.  Future
expansions of this class may allow such nodes to be retained as nodes
in the output tetrahedralization.

Using stitching options, meshes used as "holes" can subsequently be
stitched into those portions of the output mesh. If a hole mesh contains
volume elements with non-Tri3 surface sides, it cannot be stitched
with the output mesh without modifications. 
[!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/convert_holes_for_stitching) needs to
be set as `true` to allow the stitching of such hole meshes after modifications.

!alert note
In distributed mesh mode, the [!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/boundary) input mesh is temporarily serialized when it is set to be stitched with at least one of the [!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/holes) input meshes. Additionally, the [!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/holes) input meshes are always temporarily serialized to ensure compatibility with required processing methods.

Interior vertices can be adjusted after mesh generation using the
[!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/smooth_triangulation) parameter,
to produce a more "smooth" mesh, but currently the only mesh smoother
option is a simple Laplacian smoother; this can have unwanted
side-effects on meshes with concave boundaries or poor nodal valences,
and so it is disabled by default for robustness.

The elements generated by `XYZDelaunayGenerator` can be refined according
to a given uniform element volume specified as
[!param](/Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator/desired_volume).
This refinement is currently controlled by the third-party Netgen
code.

!syntax parameters /Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator

!syntax inputs /Mesh/XYZDelaunayGenerator


