framework/doc/content/syntax/NodalKernels/index.md, before:

# NodalKernels System

!alert! construction title=Undocumented System
The NodalKernels system has not been documented. The content listed below should be used as a starting
point for documenting the system, which includes the typical automatic documentation associated with
a system; however, what is contained is ultimately determined by what is necessary to make the
documentation clear for users.

```markdown
# NodalKernels System

## Overview

!! Replace this line with information regarding the NodalKernels system.

## Example Input File Syntax

!! Describe and include an example of how to use the NodalKernels system.

!syntax list /NodalKernels objects=True actions=False subsystems=False

!syntax list /NodalKernels objects=False actions=False subsystems=True

!syntax list /NodalKernels objects=False actions=True subsystems=False
```
!alert-end!

!syntax list /NodalKernels objects=True actions=False subsystems=False

!syntax list /NodalKernels objects=False actions=False subsystems=True

!syntax list /NodalKernels objects=False actions=True subsystems=False

Commit message:

Add syntax documentation to the Nodal Kernels, refs #15968

framework/doc/content/syntax/NodalKernels/index.md, after:

# NodalKernels System

Nodal kernels are used to solve equations that strictly belong on a node.
Some examples include:

- solving ordinary differential equations at every nodes. The following `NodalKernels` were implemented for that purpose:
  - [ConstantRate.md]
  - [TimeDerivativeNodalKernel.md]
  - [UserForcingFunctionNodalKernel.md]

- bounding a nodal variable's value at nodes. The following `NodalKernels` were implemented for that purpose:
  - [LowerBoundNodalKernel.md]
  - [UpperBoundNodalKernel.md]

- assigning mass to nodes instead of elements, as performed in the Tensor Mechanics module
  (see [NodalGravity](nodalkernels/NodalGravity.md optional=True) for example)


!alert note
Even though we are not using an elemental quadrature in nodal kernels, [Variables](syntax/Variables/index.md) values
should still be accessed at the index `_qp` (=0) for consistency with other kernels' code.

Nodal kernels may be block and boundary restricted. Naturally for boundary restriction, the nodal kernel is only defined on the
nodes that are part of a boundary. For block restriction, all nodes that are part of elements in a block are considered.

!syntax list /NodalKernels objects=True actions=False subsystems=False

!syntax list /NodalKernels objects=False actions=False subsystems=True

!syntax list /NodalKernels objects=False actions=True subsystems=False
