# Getting Started with Kokkos-MOOSE

!if! function=hasCapability('kokkos')

## Introduction

Kokkos-MOOSE is a part of the MOOSE framework which utilizes [Kokkos](https://kokkos.org/) to port the foundational components of MOOSE to GPU while retaining the original design as much as possible. Kokkos provides a unified programming model for different GPU architectures by abstracting hardware-specific details, enabling developers to write a single codebase that can be compiled and executed on various platforms without the need for extensive code modification. It is challenging to maintain portability across different architectures in today’s rapidly evolving hardware landscape, and the portability of Kokkos makes it suitable as a programming model for a framework like MOOSE which should serve diverse userbase. While Kokkos-MOOSE has been only tested with NVIDIA GPUs thus far, the support for AMD and Intel GPUs will be added in the future as we diversify our testing hardware environment at Idaho National Laboratory (INL).

## Installing Kokkos-MOOSE

Installation instructions for Kokkos-MOOSE can be found in [this page](getting_started/installation/install_kokkos.md optional=True).

## Developing with Kokkos-MOOSE

GPU programming is fundamentally different from 

### Separate Memory and Execution Spaces

Except for very few exceptional products (such as AMD MI300A) that provide physically unified memory space for CPU and GPU, most GPUs have separate memory spaces from CPUs.

### Functors and Copy Constructors



### Value Binding and Shallow Copy

Typically, variables retrieved through MOOSE APIs are bound locally in MOOSE objects as references to ensure they always see up-to-date variables. However, this reference binding occurs on CPU during object construction, and the reference binds a CPU variable. As the result, the reference is not accessible on GPU due to the separate memory space, and thus binding GPU variables that need to be accessed on GPU should not be done using references. Instead, they should be copied to concrete instances (values) so that their values are copied to the GPU clone during parallel dispatch, which can be described as *value binding*.

With the value binding, however, maintaining the synchronization between the original variables and their local bindings is difficult.

### Static Polymorphism with Curiously Recurring Template Pattern (CRTP)

The primary challenge in porting MOOSE to GPU lies in its heavy reliance on dynamic polymorphism using virtual functions. Polymorphism is the centerpiece of the *template method pattern*, which is a behavioral design pattern in object-oriented programming that establishes the skeleton of an algorithm in a base class while permitting derived classes to override certain steps without altering the algorithm’s overall structure, and it is the key design pattern of MOOSE.

However, virtual functions are not well-supported by GPU backends. Virtual functions are implemented through virtual function tables (vtable), which are the tables of function pointers implicitly generated by the compiler inside an object to be looked up at runtime. A vtable is created whenever an object has virtual functions and is populated by the constructor of the object. Because of this, using virtual functions on GPU requires the object to be instantiated on GPU so that the vtable can be populated with GPU function pointers. It is cumbersome to implement within the current MOOSE system, because an object instantiated on GPU is not accessible from CPU. Furthermore, not every GPU backend supports virtual functions.

Aside from portability, using virtual functions on GPU should be avoided if possible for performance, especially when the virtual functions are called in critical paths. The vtable lookup itself incurs overheads, and using function pointers prevents inlining. GPU compilers heavily rely on the inlining to generate an optimized code, and being unable to inline functions will likely lead to a performance hit.

Therefore, in order to keep the design pattern of MOOSE while enabling GPU acceleration, the CRTP was adopted. The Kokkos version of every MOOSE object is implemented using the CRTP. The CRTP is a programming idiom that involves a class template inheriting from a template instantiation of itself, which is a technique used to achieve static (compile-time) polymorphism. The following pseudo-codes demonstrate a typical template method pattern implemented with the dynamic polymorphism and its equivalent implementation with the static polymorphism using the CRTP:

- Dynamic polymorphism

```cpp
class Base{
public:
  void compute()
  {
    implementation();
  }
  virtual void implementation() { ... }
};

class Derived : public Base
{
public:
  virtual void implementation() override { ... }
};
```

- Static polymorphism using the CRTP

```cpp
template <typename Derived>
class Base
{
public:
  void compute()
  {
    static_cast<Derived *>(this)->implementation();
  }
  void implementation() { ... }
};

class Derived : public Base<Derived>
{
public:
  void implementation() { ... } // Hides implementation() of Base
};
```

In the pseudo-codes, `compute` is the *template method* that provides the overall structure of the algorithm, and `implementation` is the *hook method* that derived classes override to implement specific steps of the algorithm. Calling the derived class method is resolved at runtime in the dynamic polymorphism, whereas in the CRTP, the derived class type is known at compile time through the template argument, which makes it possible to explicitly cast `this` pointer to the derived class type to call the derived class method. Overriding a virtual function of the base class is mimicked in the CRTP by *hiding* the function of the base class by redefining it in the derived class. If the function is not hidden by the derived class, the base class function will be simply called which is available through inheritance. The behavior of a pure virtual function can also be reproduced by not defining the default function in the base class, so that if the user does not define it in the derived class, the compiler will detect it at the call to the derived class function in the base class. One difference is that in the dynamic polymorphism, the base class can be instantiated by itself unless the function is defined as a pure virtual function, while the self-instantiation is inherently impossible in the CRTP.

The CRTP, however, has several caveats that require an extra caution of the user:

- Inability of Checking Erroneous Function Hiding

The validity of hiding a function that has a default definition in the base class cannot be checked during compile time. For instance, if the user attempts to hide a base class function but incorrectly redefines it (e.g. misspelled function name, wrong argument type or number), it becomes overloading which the compiler does not consider as an error. As the result, the base class will simply call the default function. Unlike in dynamic polymorphism where erroneous overriding can be detected during compile time by explicitly adding the override `keyword`, it requires caution of the user.

- Inability of Function Privatization

In the CRTP, the base class calls the derived class method by casting `this` pointer to the derived class type and explicitly calling the method. As the result, the method being called should be public, which is different from the common practice of encapsulation.

- Complexity of Multiple Inheritance

When there are multiple levels of inheritance, all the intermediate classes should be template classes as well. Because the class type of the final derived class should be seen by the base class through the template argument, the intermediate classes should relay the class type to the base class. If the user accidentally derives a class from a non-template class, the base class will not be able to see the derived class. The user is encouraged to prevent unintended inheritance by explicitly adding the `final` keyword to the last level derived class.

### Separate Compilation

Last but not the least, all Kokkos codes should only be included in the source files with a special `*.K` extension. The Kokkos-MOOSE build system separates the compilation of the main MOOSE and Kokkos codes, avoiding the need to compile the entire MOOSE package with a GPU compiler and making the compilation process modular. All the Kokkos source files across the framework, modules, and apps are selectively compiled by the GPU compiler and linked into shared libraries by the GPU linker, while the rest of source files are compiled by the standard CPU compiler. The Kokkos shared libraries are then linked to the final executable by the CPU linker. The procedure is schematically shown in the following figure. When the Kokkos capabilities are disabled, the Kokkos source files are simply ignored, making it portable to non-GPU systems.

!media kokkos_separate_compile.png id=fig:kokkos_separate_compile caption=Schematics of the separate compilation of Kokkos source files.

In case Kokkos-related codes (not Kokkos codes) should be added to non-Kokkos source files, the build system conditionally defines a global preprocessor `MOOSE_KOKKOS_ENABLED` when the Kokkos capabilities are enabled. It can be used to protect the Kokkos-related codes in non-Kokkos source files. Also, the build system defines another preprocessor `MOOSE_KOKKOS_SCOPE` that is only defined for the Kokkos source files. It is useful for protecting Kokkos codes in header files that can be included in both Kokkos and non-Kokkos source files. However, it is important to note that `MOOSE_KOKKOS_SCOPE` should not be used to protect member variables or virtual member functions in a class, as it can make CPU and GPU compiler see inconsistent class definitions having different sizes and cause memory misalignment. It is primarly used to protect inlined GPU functions with the `KOKKOS_FUNCTION` specifier in header files or non-virtual CPU functions that are not allowed to be called in non-Kokkos source files.

!if-end!

!else
!include kokkos/kokkos_warning.md
