# MOOSE Newsletter (December 2024)

!alert! note title=INL Holiday Curtailment
[!ac](INL) was closed for its annual Curtailment of Operations December 25, 2024 through January 1, 2025.
Accordingly, development of MOOSE and developer/user support was very light during this period. The
MOOSE development team hopes that all of our collaborators, users, and colleagues around the world
had a safe and restful holiday season!
!alert-end!

## MOOSE Improvements

### Transient capabilities for the linear finite volume discretization

The linear finite volume discretization is used in the Navier Stokes module, notably, to set up segregated solves
for pressure-velocity coupling. This discretization was first implemented without support for time integration.
This has now been implemented, with new APIs which should be implemented in each of the `TimeIntegrator` classes.
These routines are then leveraged by the new [LinearFVTimeDerivative.md] kernel during the right hand side
(RHS) and matrix assembly. The routines are:

- `timeDerivativeRHSContribution(..)` for the contribution of a time derivative to the RHS of a linear system, and
- `timeDerivativeMatrixContribution(..)` for the contribution of a time derivative to the matrix of a linear system.

Currently, these routines have only been implemented for the first order [ImplicitEuler.md] time integrator.

### New Chain Controls

Several [ChainControls](syntax/ChainControls/index.md) were added. Their documentation can be found
via the following links:

- [LimitChainControl.md]
- [PIDChainControl.md]
- [RealToBoolChainControl.md]
- [ScaleOldChainControl.md]
- [SmootherChainControl.md]
- [TerminateChainControl.md]
- [UnitTripChainControl.md]

## MOOSE Modules Changes

### Navier Stokes module

A new [Physics for the scalar transport equation using the linear finite volume discretization](WCNSLinearFVScalarTransportPhysics.md)
was added to the module. It is currently restricted to steady state problems. The [SIMPLE.md] executioner has been modified
to solve passive scalars after the pressure-velocity coupling has converged.

### Reactor module

The [FlexiblePatternGenerator.md] has been improved to automatically generate the extra-element integer ids in the elements.
These ids can be used to number pins, assemblies, depletion regions etc.

## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements

- Auxiliary and linear finite volume variables can now be retrieved through the `getFunctor<Real>` calls as `Real-`valued
  functors, even though they inherit from the MooseVariable which is an ADReal-valued functor. Since these two variable
  types do not actually leverage AD, this facilitates setting up non-AD functor materials.
- The [CombinerGenerator.md] was fixed to correctly translate the mesh if only a single position is used.
- User objects now call `initialSetup()` for their setup in the same order (execution group) that they execute. This
  facilitates handling complex dependencies between user objects directly from the input file.
- The [NumTimeSteps.md] postprocessor was added to track the time step number in a transient simulation.
