# MOOSE Newsletter (March 2024)

!alert! construction title=In Progress
This MOOSE Newsletter edition is in progress. Please check back in April 2024
for a complete description of all MOOSE changes.
!alert-end!

## MOOSE Improvements

### Checkpoints now performed by default

A feature to create checkpoints based on simulation wall time was added. If users forget to turn on
checkpoints, a checkpoint will automatically be created every 10 minutes of wall time or when the
current time step converges, whichever occurs later. The wall time output interval can be adjusted
by changing the value of the [!param](/Outputs/Checkpoint/wall_time_interval) parameter (in seconds)
in the checkpoint definition.

### WebServerControl

A new [/Controls/index.md] object, the [/WebServerControl.md], was added to the framework that allows
for external control of a MOOSE-based simulation. It works by starting a web-server that exposes a
[REST API](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/api/what-is-a-rest-api) that any external application or
script can access in order to control the execution of MOOSE. The current capabilities are intended
to be used by external "controllers" - typically those built using AI/ML in Python/Matlab/etc.

The web server is controlled by an accompanying Python utility, the [MooseControl/index.md].

## libMesh-level Changes

### `2024.02.28` Update

- Added capability to read and write sparse matrices in the
  ASCII/Matlab format used by PETSc.
- Added capability to read mesh constraint rows from an arbitrary
  sparse matrix.  This will enable IGA solves on more flexible meshes
  without perfect body fit domains.
- Added vector-valued parameter support in Reduced-Basis code.
- Added normalization to Empirical Interpolation Method in
  Reduced-Basis code.
- Removed redundant mapping code for FEXYZ.  Instead use the common
  mapping code, which has additional optimizations, and which avoids a
  bug triggered by MOOSE use of those optimizations.
- Fixed bugs in Tet14 element refinement with non-default diagonal
  selection.
- Always number assembly element nodes contiguously when reading
  IsoGeometric Analysis meshes.  This avoids a bug in transient IGA
  solves on distributed meshes with discontinuous assembly elements.
- Minor bug fixes to example applications' common shell functions,
  test execution in configurations without numeric solver libraries,
  and an unused variable warning on newer compilers.

## PETSc-level Changes

## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements
