# MOOSE Newsletter (June 2024)

!alert! construction title=In Progress
This MOOSE Newsletter edition is in progress. Please check back in July 2024
for a complete description of all MOOSE changes.
!alert-end!

## MOOSE Improvements

## libMesh-level Changes

### `2024.06.28` Update

- Support for `QuadShell9` elements, and fixes for refinement of
  `QuadShell8` elements.  This is a behavior-changing update:
  `QuadShell4` elements, when elevated to second order, now become
  `QuadShell9` (with a full biquadratic Lagrange space) rather than
  `QuadShell8` (with a "Serendipity element" space).
- Fixes for libMesh `make dist` and `make distcheck` with new
  submodules and new contributed packages.
- Support and unit tests for non-square EigenSparseMatrix matrices
- Support and unit tests for reading sparse matrices from
  gzipped-Matlab format files.
- Utility for converting sparse matrix files from PETSc binary formats
  to Matlab format.
- Improved speed for reading sparse matrices.
- Refactoring of some solution transfer code; exposure of
  `MeshfreeInterpolationFunction` class to users.
- Support and unit tests in TIMPI for `set_union` of `multiset` and
  `multimap` containers, including `unordered_` versions.
- Refactored Nedelec finite element code for simplification and
  generality.
- Fixes and testing for more IsoGeometricAnalysis use cases on
  distributed meshes.
- Additional fparser headers installed, to enable user subclassing
- Assorted bug fixes: configure now supports preexisting `-Werror` in
  compiler flags (with tested compilers), more standard treatment of
  PETSc error codes.
- PetscVector subvectors can now be created by supplying only local
  subvector indices.
- Incoming vectors to `local_variable_indices()` are now cleared
  before filling.
- PerfLog profiling of matrix reads and mesh constraint
  initialization.
- Refactoring and optional debugging features for mesh constraint
  code.
- Added `RBConstruction::is_serial_training_type()` and EIM updates to
  reduced basis code.
- Added a DofMap API for users to request full matrix sparsity pattern
  retention even with linear algebra packages that do not need it
  themselves.

## PETSc-level Changes

## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements
