# MOOSE Newsletter (July 2024)

## MOOSE Improvements

### Execution at specific times

With the [TimesEnableControl.md] control object, any object which can be turned on/off using [controls](syntax/Controls/index.md) can now be activated or de-activated based on the times listed in a [Times](syntax/Times/index.md) object. The `execute_on` parameter of the controlled object is still obeyed, only when
it is set to be active.

### Checkpoint system updates

After receiving user feedback, MOOSE's checkpoint system has been updated:

- By default, checkpoints are now written every 60 minutes of elapsed wall time (increased from 10 minutes).
- The `Outputs/wall_time_checkpoint=false` syntax is introduced as an easy way to turn off automatic checkpoint output. Before this change, the only way to turn it off was to set `Outputs/Checkpoint/wall_time_interval` to a number of seconds longer than the total simulation wall time.
- An informative block is output to the MOOSE header in the console output describing the configuration of the checkpoint system for each simulation.
- Checkpoints are now written in compressed ASCII (.cpa.gz) format instead of binary (.cpr) format. This allows checkpoints to be output on systems without XDR support. Reading and writing binary checkpoint files is no longer supported.

### Modules changes

- Several additional routines for evaluating [LinearFluidProperties.md] with the (pressure, temperature)
  and the (specific volume, specific internal energy) variable sets were implemented.
- The [INSFVMomentumTimeDerivative.md] finite volume kernel can now optionally not contribute to
  the Rhie Chow coefficients. This enables INSFV flow solutions to be independent from the timestep size.
- [TabulatedFluidProperties.md] support for the (specific volume, specific internal energy) variable set
  was entirely reworked to enable the direct use of tabulated data with these variables. Properties tabulated
  in (pressure, temperature) can also be loaded simultaneously.


### Minor changes

- A basic line search was added to the contact point search Newton solve,
  along with improved floating point exception handling, both to increase
  robustness of the contact point search.
- The [PropertyReadFile.md] can now read a list of files to read from another file,
  containing the files' names in a single column.


## libMesh-level Changes

### `2024.07.16` Update

- Support for `QuadShell9` elements, and fixes for refinement of
  `QuadShell8` elements.  This is a behavior-changing update:
  `QuadShell4` elements, when elevated to second order, now become
  `QuadShell9` (with a full biquadratic Lagrange space) rather than
  `QuadShell8` (with a "Serendipity element" space).
- Fixes for libMesh `make dist` and `make distcheck` with new
  submodules and new contributed packages.
- Support and unit tests for non-square EigenSparseMatrix matrices
- Support and unit tests for reading sparse matrices from
  gzipped-Matlab format files.
- Utility for converting sparse matrix files from PETSc binary formats
  to Matlab format.
- Improved speed for reading sparse matrices.
- Refactoring of some solution transfer code; exposure of
  `MeshfreeInterpolationFunction` class to users.
- Support and unit tests in TIMPI for `set_union` of `multiset` and
  `multimap` containers, including `unordered_` versions.
- Refactored Nedelec finite element code for simplification and
  generality.
- Fixes and testing for more IsoGeometricAnalysis use cases on
  distributed meshes.
- More test coverage: `ExodusII_IO` with shell elements, PETSc
  DMlibMesh interface
- New `Elem::is_internal()` API for local node indices
- Additional fparser headers installed, to enable user subclassing
- Assorted bug fixes: configure now supports preexisting `-Werror` in
  compiler flags (with tested compilers), more standard treatment of
  PETSc error codes, `--node-major-dofs` now works with FE types that
  have element DoFs too.
- Added `LIBMESH_PETSC_SUCCESS` shim
- PetscVector subvectors can now be created by supplying only local
  subvector indices.
- Slight change to `restore_subvector()` arguments
- Incoming vectors to `local_variable_indices()` are now cleared
  before filling.
- PerfLog profiling of matrix reads and mesh constraint
  initialization.
- Refactoring and optional debugging features for mesh constraint
  code.
- Added `RBConstruction::is_serial_training_type()` and EIM updates to
  reduced basis code.
- Added a DofMap API for users to request full matrix sparsity pattern
  retention even with linear algebra packages that do not need it
  themselves.
- `System::is_initialized()` is now `const`
- Added `LibmeshPetscCall` macro that can wrap any PETSc function call without need for `LIBMESH_CHKERR(ierr)`

### `2024.07.27` Update

- Bounding box testing for .msh $Entities in GmshIO::read(), to detect
  file inconsistencies
- Added Netgen as an optional submodule.  With Netgen enabled, libMesh
  now includes a `NetGenMeshInterface` class which can be used to
  generate tetrahedral meshes within triangulated boundaries or within
  volume mesh domains.
- Added `libmesh/fuzzy_equals.h` methods: `absolute_fuzzy_equals()`
  and `relative_fuzzy_equals()`, for checking equality to within a
  specified absolute or relative tolerance.  Added `l1_norm()` and
  `l1_norm_diff()` methods as necessary to classes (`TypeVector`,
  `NumericVector`, `SparseMatrix`) and subclasses which might be
  compared.
- Fixes for `make distcheck` testing of release candidate tarballs
- Updates to EIM error indicator normalization in Reduced Basis code
