# MOOSE Newsletter (October 2024)

## MOOSE Improvements

### New System: Convergence

The [Convergence](syntax/Convergence/index.md) system was added, which allows
the user to specify customized stopping criteria for their solves/iteration.
Currently, only the nonlinear solve is supported, but this is planned for
extension to fixed point iteration and steady-state detection. The main class
to add new capability is [PostprocessorConvergence.md], which allows a post-processor
to be compared to a tolerance to determine convergence. This post-processor
should be executed on the new `execute_on` option, `NONLINEAR_CONVERGENCE`.

### Standardization of Physics initialization

For all `Physics` classes deriving from `PhysicsBase`, the variable initialization behavior has been standardized.
Variables should be initialized using, in order of priority:

- user-specified initialization input parameters, which should always be obeyed
- from an exodus file, with the `initialize_variables_from_mesh_file` parameter, if no user specified values for a variable are requested
- from the checkpoint file specified to the `Problem` for the restart
- from the default value of the initialization parameters, if and only if none of the previous conditions apply

### Direct Nodeset generation

In MOOSE, we often forego the concepts of nodesets and sidesets to simply use the term "boundary", which refers
to one or the other depending on the objects at hand. For example, a Dirichlet boundary condition for a Lagrange variable
will use a nodeset for its boundary parameter, while a postprocessor computing the diffusive flux with a monomial variable
will use a sideset for its boundary parameter. As such, we focused our mesh generation effort to be able to easily create sidesets,
and the nodesets can be easily generated from these sidesets.

However, for the specific need of generating 1D nodesets within a 3D mesh, we needed to be able to generate nodesets directly.
The [ParsedGenerateNodeset.md] joins the roster of mesh generators for that purpose. It offers much of the flexibility of
the [ParsedGenerateSideset.md] and their design are very similar.

### Mesh conversion to all simplices (triangles and tets)

The [ElementsToSimplicesConverter.md] was created as a mesh generator. An input mesh will be modified
to replace each non-simplex mesh element with a set of simplices
connecting the same nodes.  Each quad is split into 2 triangles, each
pyramid into 2 tetrahedra, each prism into 3 tets, and each cube into
6 tets.

### Ability to set multiple time integrators

For simulations using multiple variables/equations, there is now the option to use different time integration methods for each variable/equation.

### New tests scheduler for High Performance Computing

A new scheduler was added to the MOOSE test suite to be able to leverage HPC platforms for
continuous integration.

## MOOSE Modules changes

### Navier Stokes: Skewness correction changes

The gradient of the pressure, both corrected and uncorrected, that are used in Rhie-Chow interpolation are now both
using skewness correction when skewness correction has been specified for the pressure variable.

Skewness-corrected gradients are now computed using the Least-Squares method rather than Green Gauss.
With these two modifications, oscillations on skewed meshes in simulations with volumetric body forces are no longer present.

## Thermal hydraulics: use of field variables on node elements for Junctions

For cases with large numbers of Junctions, it was observed that performance was severely degraded.
This was explained by the use of scalar variables, which are intended to have a global coupling
to other fields. By instead using field variables on node elements, the expected coupling to
other variables is much reduced, and performance was greatly improved.

## libMesh-level Changes

### `2024.10.17` Update

- Support for reading (the surface triangulations defined by) STL
  files.  This combined with our recent tetrahedralization support
  also allows for creating volume meshes from STL files; however,
  creating high-quality volume meshes from arbitrary STL files is
  still a work in progress.
- Support for higher-order (up to quintic) vector-valued FE bases in
  the Nédélec (first kind) and Raviart-Thomas FE families.
- Better handling for odd IsoGeometric Analysis extraction operators,
  and better error handling for broken IGA operators.
- Better unit test coverage for NodeElem; fixes to NodeElem
  methods which should be no-op but instead threw errors.
- Unit test coverage for fifth-order `MONOMIAL` elements.  So far
  new tests have not uncovered any problems, but based on user
  reports of convergence issues, we recommend limiting `MONOMIAL`
  variables to fourth-order.
- Fixes for condensed eigensolve support after mesh reinit.
- Fixes for caching of FE data on sides of meshes with non-uniform
  p-refinement levels.
- Minor fixes for compiler complaints from `nvc++` and
  `clang++ -fsanitize`.
- Properly register `--keep-cout` and `--drop-cerr` warnings with
  PETSc to avoid "options you set that were not used" false positives.
- Better error messages when tetrahedralizing a non-watertight input
  boundary mesh.
- Refactoring in AbaqusIO, to enable subclasses in MOOSE code with
  experimental support for more advanced file features.
- Improvements and fixes in Reduced Basis code, particularly the
  Empirical Interpolation Method classes.

## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements

- The [GenericFunctorTimeDerivativeMaterial.md] was added to be able to create time-derivative functor material properties of other functors.
- The [ParsedAux.md] can now directly leverage Real and ADReal-valued material properties, without first converting them to auxiliary variables.
- Block-restriction of indicators in adaptivity is now fully supported. Previously only markers could be block restricted, while indicators had to
  cover the whole domain.
- The [Coupleable.md] interface now supports an additional routine for retrieving the time derivative of nodal and DoF values with automatic differentiation.
- A diagnostics for "waterproofness" of sidesets, e.g. covering the entire external boundary of the mesh, was added to the [MeshDiagnosticsGenerator.md].
- A new execution flag `NONLINEAR_CONVERGENCE` was added for executing objects right before evaluating the residual in nonlinear iterations and assessing convergence.
- A new `timeIntegral()` routine was added to Functions to compute the integral from time `t1` to `t2` at point `p`. The routine must be implemented for every Function requiring it.
- A `FunctorMaterial` was added to compute the time derivatives of other functors. This facilitates the creation of complex expressions directly from the input file.
- The [AverageVariableChange.md] postprocessor was added to compute the change over time steps of a variable. This is part of a larger effort to provide greater flexibility in setting convergence criteria.
- `FluidProperties` can now return exceptions when a `NaN` is encountered, using the [NaNInterface.md]. Previously, only ignoring, returning an error or a warning were possible.
- The [JSONFileReader.md] was templated to be able to read JSON files with leaves of strings rather than Reals.
- Verification and validation document lists can now be placed in the top level of `[Tests]` specifications.
- The [SideFVFluxBCIntegral.md] was added to be able to postprocess the fluxes of a `FVFluxBC` directly rather than re-implementing the flux computation in a postprocessor.

## Conda Package Changes

- `moose-mpi`, our lowest level package, has been updated to allow users wishing to
  build their own PETSc, libMesh, and WASP to do so without needing to install any
  additional Conda packages.
- HDF5 has been downgraded to solve issue: [Floating Point Exception, #28350](https://github.com/idaholab/moose/issues/28350)
- The minimum MacOS build SDK has been bumped to MacOS Big Sur (11.3). Users of
  MacOS versions older than this may run into issues building and running MOOSE,
  MOOSE dependencies, or other MOOSE-based applications.
