# MOOSE Newsletter (February 2024)

## MOOSE Improvements


### N-to-M siblings transfer in MultiAppGeneralFieldTransfer

The [MultiAppGeneralFieldTransfer.md]-derived classes can now perform arbitrary N-to-M siblings transfer.
Siblings transfer are transfer between two multiapps without copying any information on the parent application.
This flexibility enables more efficient multiphysics coupling, and generally facilitates the setup of multiphysics
simulation in which each physics solve is segregated in a separate [MultiApp](MultiApps/index.md).

### New Application syntax block

The [Application](Application/index.md) syntax was introduced into MOOSE. The `Application` block is
utilized to explicitly specify the application type used for the input file. The application type
should be provided using the [!param](/Application/type) parameter under the block. The `Application`
block is parsed before the MOOSE application is actually built. If any mismatch between the registered
application type and the user-selected type is detected, the system will immediately throw an error
and stop the setup of the simulation. The `Application` block supports MultiApps and can be used to
replace the command-line option `--app <AppName>`. When a combined application is given, the user can
choose only to run one of the dependent applications by providing the specific dependent application
type in `Application` block.

### Solid mechanics module

The Tensor Mechanics module has been renamed to the Solid Mechanics module. The tensor mechanics
module started out as an alternative implementation of the solid mechanics equation from the old
solid mechanics module. The old solid mechanics module was removed in 2020. Four years later,
we expect that re-using the solid mechanics module name will not cause much, if any, disruption.

Concurrently, the following syntax changes were made for the major [Actions](Action.md) in the module.
For example, the main action was changed from:

```
[Modules]
  [TensorMechanics]
    [Master]
     ...
```

to the new syntax:

```
[Physics]
  [SolidMechanics]
    [QuasiStatic]
     ...
```

Summary of syntax changes:

!table caption=Syntax replacements
| Old syntax | New syntax |
| - | - |
| Modules/TensorMechanics/Master | Physics/SolidMechanics/QuasiStatic |
| Modules/TensorMechanics/DynamicMaster | Physics/SolidMechanics/Dynamic |
| Modules/TensorMechanics/GeneralizedPlaneStrain | Physics/SolidMechanics/GeneralizedPlaneStrain |
| Modules/TensorMechanics/CohesiveZoneMaster | Physics/SolidMechanics/CohesiveZone |
| Modules/TensorMechanics/LineElementMaster | Physics/SolidMechanics/LineElement/QuasiStatic |

### Lower dimensional aux vars in boundary restricted aux kernels

Users may now populate auxiliary variables living on lower dimensional blocks
through auxiliary kernels applied on boundaries coincident with the lower-d
blocks. This allows, for instance, use of face material property evaluations in
computation of the lower-d aux var. This work also led to

- robustification of some framework level objects against the possiblity of "late" remote element
  deletion, including `PiecewiseConstantFromCSV` and `ElementalVariableValue`.
- explicity initializing [relationship managers (RMs)](RelationshipManager.md) with
  the [MooseMesh.md] the RM is logically associated with. This ensures that, if
  an RM uses data from the MooseMesh for ghosting determination, the behavior
  is sane.


## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements

- The [PropertyReadFile.md] is now able to delay reading files until its first execution, bypassing
  the loading of the CSV data at construction.
- The Spline-Based-Table-Lookup fluid properties can now be used with the finite volume fully-coupled incompressible
  flow discretization of the Navier Stokes equations, by setting the [!param](/FunctorMaterials/GeneralFunctorFluidProps/neglect_derivatives_of_density_time_derivative) parameter to true
- The [CoarsenBlockGenerator.md] was added to MOOSE. Its features are limited and only include coarsening a previously-refined
  mesh for which the refinement information was lost.
