# MOOSE Newsletter (November 2024)

## MOOSE Improvements

### Default support for multiple solver systems in the Steady and Transient executioners

The [Steady.md] and [Transient.md] executioner, as well as any `Executioner` relying on a [FEProblemSolve.md] solve object
can now solve multiple solver systems, e.g. nonlinear or linear systems. A variable can be placed in a solver system
using the `solver_sys` parameter of the `Variable`.

The solve of multiple systems can be iterated using the [!param](/Executioner/Transient/multi_system_fixed_point) parameter.
A [Convergence object](syntax/Convergence/index.md) must then be specified to the `Executioner` to assess the convergence
of the multi-system fixed point iteration.

This support was also extended to the [Physics system](syntax/Physics/index.md), in which the `Physics` equations can be
set to be solved in their own solver system

### Interface for finding data files

Parameters with the string-derived type `DataFileName` will now search the application's data folder, as well as the
local simulation folder, for the files mentioned in the parameter. They will then return the absolute path to those files.
This is intended to simplify the inclusion of data in an application, data which can be referred to in the input files.

### New ChainControl system for handling complex/chained Control logic

The new [ChainControl system](syntax/ChainControls/index.md) was added to MOOSE. It uses `ChainControlData` which can be of arbitrary
types, and which can be operated on by each `ChainControl` object. This enables creating limiters, PID controllers, etc.,
and chaining these operations to control parameters in the input file.
This will replace the `ControlLogic` system in the thermal-hydraulics module after a transition period.

### Removing default inclusion of the entire libMesh namespace

The entirety of the `libMesh` namespace is no longer introduced by the `Moose.h` header. This was removed
in order to prevent conflict between namespaces of external libraries that could be used by MOOSE-based
applications.
A reduced number of `libMesh` namespace objects are still included through the `libMeshReducedNamespace.h`.
This list will be adjusted, mostly further reduced, over time.

In order to continue to use `libMesh` namespace objects, we recommend:

- prefacing objects with the namespace name, for example `libMesh::ValueValue` for a `VectorValue`
- in source files, you may add `using namespace libMesh;` in order not to require such prefixes. This is standard practice.
- in header files, doing so is not generally recommended, and the use of prefixes should be preferred

## MOOSE Modules Changes

### Execution of MultiApps within the SIMPLE algorithm for solving the Navier Stokes equation

The [SIMPLE.md] executioner was reworked to use a `SolveObject`, `SIMPLESolve`, to perform the execution.
This allowed nesting the solution algorithm inside the fixed-point iteration loop with [MultiApps](syntax/MultiApps/index.md).
This enables converging multi-physics problems. The `SIMPLE` executioner is currently limited to
steady state simulations.

### Re-implementation of the finite volume face flux limiters

A new implementation of the finite volume face flux limiters was performed. This new implementation presents the
expected second order convergence across additional limiters, and adds the `Venkatakrishnan` limiter.
It was demonstrated on the classical scalar-advection dispersion case and showed reduced numerical dispersion.

### Implementation of the Navier Stokes energy conservation equation using the  linear finite volume discretization

Kernels and boundary conditions were added to the Navier Stokes module to discretize the energy conservation
equation using the linear finite volume discretization. The [SIMPLE.md] executioner, now relying on the `SIMPLESolve` class,
can then solve the energy conservation equation after each pressure-velocity coupling iteration.
Only steady state simulations are currently supported.

### `2024.11.20` Update

- Added `MeshBase::elem_orders()`, `MeshBase::max_nodal_order()`, etc.
  APIs.  This will soon allow middleware code to do additional sanity
  checking of user variable order choices, or to automatically choose
  an isoparametric variable order when appropriate.
- Added triangularization and tetrahedralization support to `meshtool`
  app.
- Added the ability to condense out "element-internal" degrees of
  freedom when building algebraic systems.  This gives smaller
  algebraic systems to solve, without "bubble function" coefficients
  in continuous FEM methods or internal degrees of freedom in HDG
  methods.
- Added `NonManifoldGhostingFunctor` class, which can be used to give
  reliable distributed-mesh connectivity on meshes where multiple edge
  elements meet at the same point and/or multiple face elements meet
  along the same edge.
- Added `SidesToElemMap` class, for caching that "reverse connectivity"
  in classes like the `NonManifoldGhostingFunctor` that use it.
- Generalized `MeshFunction::find_element()` allowing evaluation of a
  `MeshFunction` on algebraically-ghosted elements when a `GHOSTED`
  vector is in use.
- Added `SimplexRefiner` class, which currently supports refinement of
  simplicial (edge, triangle, and/or tetrahedral) meshes via edge
  bisection.
- Exit with error when asked to evaluate `L2_HIERARCHIC` bases of
  polynomial degree `p=0`.  Previously this case was returning an
  incomplete basis that would deliver suboptimal convergence.
- Use more accurate projections when decimating solutions on `H_DIV`
  finite elements for visualization output.
- Optimizations to `SparseMatrix::read_matlab()`
- Added `--with-xdr-libdir` option to `configure`, making it possible
  to build libMesh with XDR support using more types of third-party
  library installations.
- Better `configure --help` entries for NetCDF options
- `configure` now autodetects the Fortran compiler from PETSc where
  possible
- Fixes for `make check` NetCDF tests when combining older NetCDF with
  newer HDF5
- Support for distributed-and-unprepared meshes in `all_tri()`
- Compatibility fixes for PETSc 3.23
- Support for adding a prefix when querying a
  `PetscNonlinearSolver::snes()` that might have yet to be initialized
- Added `NumericVector::set_type()`, deprecated older `type()` setter
  that returned a writeable reference.  This will eventually make more
  flexible changes to vector type possible.
- Fixes for libMesh-based error reporting without a `LibMeshInit`
  object active.  This corrected a regression in the error handling of
  the libMesh `fparser-parse` utility.
- Fixes in Reduced Basis EIM code

## PETSc-level Changes

PETSc has been updated to 3.22.1. Changes in this release include:

- Add `MatCopyHashToXAIJ()` which allows assembling an XAIJ matrix in hash table
  form into another XAIJ matrix. Additionally added `MatResetHash()` which
  allows resetting an XAIJ matrix to use a hash table. Both of these
  developments will be leveraged in libMesh and MOOSE for simulations in which
  the sparsity pattern changes dynamically, rendering an initial preallocation
  invalid. By using a hash table in these cases as opposed to a preallocation,
  we can avoid new nonzero allocations which can sometimes slow simulations down by orders
  of magnitude
- Add `PetscCtxDestroyFn` as the prototype for all context destroy functions. It is `PetscErrorCode
  ()(void **)`. Previously some context destructor setters took `PetscErrorCode ()(void *)`. But
  these would not work directly with PETSc objects as contexts and having two different context
  destructor models added unneeded complexity to the library. This change is not backward compatible
- Deprecate `PetscContainerSetUserDestroy()` with `PetscContainerSetCtxDestroy()`, updating will
  require a small change in calling code
- Deprecate `PetscContainerCtxDestroyDefault` with `PetscCtxDestroyDefault()`
- Add `PetscIntViewNumColumns()`, `PetscScalarViewNumColumns()`, and `PetscRealViewNumColumns()`
- Update `--download-pastix` to use CMake build, with additional dependency on LAPACKE and CBLAS,
  can use for ex. MKL with `--with-blaslapack-dir=${MKLROOT}`, or Netlib LAPACK with
  `--download-netlib-lapack --with-netlib-lapack-c-bindings`
- Add option `--with-library-name-suffix=<suffix>`
- Add `PetscCIntCast()`
- Add `PetscObjectHasFunction()` to query for the presence of a composed method
- Add `ISGetCompressOutput()` and `ISSetCompressOutput()`
- Deprecate `DMGetSection()` and `DMSetSection()` for existing `DMGetLocalSection()` and
  `DMSetLocalSection()`
- Add `DMSwarmSortRestorePointsPerCell()`
- Change `DMSwarmVectorGetField()` and add `DMSwarmVectorDefineFields()` to handle multiple fields
- Add `DMSwarmGetCoordinateField()` and `DMSwarmSetCoordinateField()`
- Add `DMSwarmComputeMoments()`
- Add `DMSwarmPushCellDM()` and `DMSwarmPopCellDM()`
- Add `DMPlexTransformGetMatchStrata()` and `DMPlexTransformSetMatchStrata()`
- Deprecate `DMPlexSetGlobalToNaturalSF()` and `DMPlexGetGlobalToNaturalSF()` for existing
  `DMSetNaturalSF()` and `DMGetNaturalSF()`
- Add `-dm_plex_box_label_bd` to setup isoperiodicity when using `-dm_plex_box_label_bd`


## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements

- [Periodic boundary conditions](syntax/BCs/Periodic/index.md) are now more
  verbose. They will now output intermediate setup data in their [!param](/BCs/Periodic/AddPeriodicBCAction/auto_direction)
  mode, and will error with a helpful error message if used using conflicting parameters, or with a
  non-existing primary or secondary boundary.
- All `Sampler` vectorpostprocessors (VPPs) will now correctly detect and throw an error when used with
  vector and array variables, which they currently do not support. New `Sampler` VPPs could be created
  to support them.
- [ProjectionAux.md] can now handle 1D elements in a multi-dimensional mesh - for example, when
  using 1D thermal hydraulic channels in a multi-dimensional loop.
- A [NumTimeSteps.md] postprocessor was added to count the number of time steps elapsed in a simulation.
- Lower-D elements created using the [!param](/Mesh/FileMesh/build_all_side_lowerd_mesh) parameter are now
  separated in multiple blocks depending on the full-dimensional block they are located next to. However,
  block-restriction of certain kernels to only part of the lower-D blocks is not supported.
- Several mesh diagnostics were added to detect whether a mesh is fully englobed by sidesets, by which
  we mean that all external sides are part of a sideset, whether a mesh is fully englobed by nodesets,
  and whether there are any overlapping element edges in a mesh.
- The dynamic pressure can now be used in lieu of the total pressure in the nonlinear finite volume
  discretization of the Navier Stokes equations for weakly compressible flow.
