# MOOSE Newsletter (September 2024)

## MOOSE Improvements

### Exit Code Management

The ability was added to allow an application to set its exit code, which can
be seen in `MooseApp::setExitCode()`. This feature was added in order to better
support instances in which you want to run an external process within an application,
as the proper return code from the external process can be captured and
returned via your application.

In order for an application properly return this exit code, a modification is needed
within the `main` function. To do this, modify the `main()` function in `src/main.C`
to look like the following:

```
int
main(int argc, char * argv[])
{
  return Moose::main<YourApp>(argc, argv);
}
```

where `YourApp` is the class for your application.

This change should be made as soon as possible as the logic that was changed here
impacts the application command line options `--run` and `--copy-inputs` used for
executing installed MOOSE applications.

### Deployment of the ActionComponents system

[ActionComponents](syntax/ActionComponents/index.md) were introduced to MOOSE. They are derived from the [Action](Action.md) class and are tasked with
building the geometrical definition of a system. They can be specialized to a given `Physics` and discretization,
or they can be set to instantiate any `Physics` onto their domain.

The main difference with the Thermal Hydraulics module [Components](syntax/Components/index.md) is that `ActionComponents` are derived
from an `Action` base class and therefore can follow the traditional task-based simulation setup, while `Components` are derived
from `MooseObject` and require inter-component dependency resolution for the simulation setup.
Other differences include the possibility to use `MeshGenerators` in tandem with `ActionComponents`.

## MOOSE Modules Changes

### Release of the fluid properties external submodules

Fluid properties submodules for air, carbon dioxide, helium, nitrogen, sodium and potassium, including
both single phase and two phase properties, were added to MOOSE. They are optional submodules, and
they can be downloaded using the command below. Once downloaded, an application must use the fluid properties
module to be able to use these properties.

```
cd ~/projects/moose
git submodule update --init --checkout modules/fluid_properties/contrib/<submodule of interest>
```

### Physics for k-epsilon turbulence

[WCNSFVTurbulencePhysics.md] was added to the Navier Stokes module. It facilitates the setup of the k-epsilon
equations in a Navier Stokes flow simulation with the weakly compressible finite volume discretization. It is currently
only available for the Newton solver. Performance is limited for larger problems.
A similar `Physics` should be created for the high performance linear finite volume segregated solver in the next fiscal year.

### Specific internal energy added to Solid Properties objects

The [ThermalSolidProperties.md] objects from the [Solid properties module](modules/solid_properties/index.md)
now provide interfaces to compute the specific internal energy as a function of
temperature. This new interface is useful, for example, in measuring the
internal energy in solids for energy conservation verification.

## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements

- Linking warnings due to visibility settings differences at compile-time of various templates
  were resolved by using template instantiation declaration in the affected headers.
- The framework folders are now all built using the folder unity technique which speeds up the compilation.
  As a reminder, unity builds can be disabled by setting `export MOOSE_UNITY=false` to reduce memory use during compilation.
- The `execute_on` parameter was removed from `Function` objects, as they are generally never executed on
  an execution schedule but rather computed on-the-fly on every call.
- The [ProjectionAux.md] specifically checks for mixed order projections to avoid double-counting nodes present
  in both lower and higher dimensional blocks
- The [QuadraturePointsPositions.md] object was added to output quadrature points from elements in either the mesh or
  subdomains of the mesh to JSON. They can also be used to create MultiApps, as in the [QuadraturePointMultiApp.md]
- A new MOOSE container is available for profiling purposes using Google's `gpertools` and `pprof` software.
