# MOOSE Newsletter (January 2024)

## MOOSE Improvements

### New Physics action syntax

The [Physics](syntax/Physics/index.md) syntax has been added to MOOSE. The `Physics` system is meant
to streamline the input of a set of physical equations in MOOSE. For example, this might allow the
definition of the required equations automatically but also the selection of good default parameters
and preconditioners. `Physics` are derived from [Actions](source/actions/Action.md) but define
APIs to facilitate the implementation of a new `Physics` action. As appropriate, some of the modules'
actions that defined equations will be transitioned to the `Physics` system over the coming months.

### Separation of the Materials and FunctorMaterials block

[Functor materials](syntax/FunctorMaterials/index.md) were added to MOOSE to
allow evaluation of material properties at arbitrary locations, such as element
faces or nodes, usually on-the-fly (although some caching is supported). These materials do not define traditional material properties as in the
[Material](syntax/Materials/index.md) system, but instead they define
[Functors](syntax/Functors/index.md). To mark the difference between the two systems,
the two types of objects should no longer be created in the same `[Materials]` block;
FunctorMaterials should be created inside a `[FunctorMaterials]` block.

### Improvements in the Navier Stokes Module

- The k-$\epsilon$ turbulence model was added. This method enables more accurate turbulence modeling compared to the current mixing-length model.
- A drift-flux mixture model was added which enables solutions of two-phase flows where the phases move at different velocities but assume local equilibrium over short spatial length scales.

### Field Split Additions

Field splits can now be nested within each other. Moreover a [NavierStokesProblem.md] was introduced
that allows for scalable preconditioning of the Navier-Stokes equations for low to moderate Reynolds
numbers. The Least Squared Commutator preconditioning techniques employed have been demonstrated on
problem sizes up to 70 million degrees of freedom.

## libMesh-level Changes

### `2024.01.23` Update

- New example illustrating a Hybridized Discontinuous Galerkin solve
- Added new finite element support: the `HIERARCHIC_VEC` FE family,
  for vector-valued hierarchic shape functions, and the
  `L2_HIERARCHIC_VEC` FE family, for the broken/L2 version of that
  space.  Added simple-vector-valued example and
  Hybridized-Discontinuous-Galerkin example runs using these families.
- Support for a pre-check object callback from PetscNonlinearSolver
- Keep track of libMesh command line queries, and avoid spurious
  unused-option warnings about them from PETSc
- Support for upgrading the order of mixed-order input meshes in
  `all_second_order()` and `all_complete_order()`
- Support for neighbor-finding and mesh stitching with mixed-order
  input meshes.  Mixed-order meshes must still be upgraded before
  being used to support C0 finite element types in a linear solve
  (where constraint equations would be needed between
  incompatible-order neighbors), but mesh generation and modification
  with pre-upgraded mixed-order meshes is now possible.
- Support for more preconditioning options in EigenSparseLinearSolver;
  this allows us to reenable a dozen examples that were previously
  skipped when Eigen was configured as the default linear algebra
  package.
- Minor fixes to reduced basis code, string parsing of uncommon
  quadrature rule names, configuration on systems without stdlib.h,
- Minor clarifications and typo fixes in documentation, comments, and
  runtime error messages
- Fixes for VTK .pvtu reading, and preservation of libMesh node, element,
  and subdomain ids written to VTK files
- `Elem::volume()` no longer can throw an exception when called on an
  element without an invertible mapping; hence `print_info()` and
  `get_info()` are now safe to use when emitting debugging messages about
  twisted geometric elements.
- Support `interior_parent` in `Elem` order upgrades
- Avoid creating duplicate entries in `BoundaryInfo` multimaps
- Removes an overzealous assertion in variable name collection that
  does not work with `NodeElem`-only meshes

## PETSc-level Changes

### PETSc updated to 3.20.3

The `moose-petsc` package has been updated alongside the repository submodule to version 3.20.3.
Consequently, the `moose-dev` conda environment has been updated. To update your MOOSE
package to this release, please activate your MOOSE conda environment and perform the command:

```
mamba install moose-dev=2024.01.23
```

or remove and re-create your moose environment by performing the following:

```
conda deactivate
conda env remove -n moose
conda create -n moose moose-dev=2024.01.23
```

The following MOOSE package versions and builds corresponding to `moose-dev=2024.01.23` should be
seen in the new conda environment.

```
Package                  Version           Build
===================================================
moose-dev                2024.01.23        build_0
moose-libmesh            2024.01.23        build_0
moose-libmesh-vtk        9.2.6             build_8
moose-mpich              4.0.2             build_15
moose-peacock            2023.11.29        hb4c3223_0
moose-petsc              3.20.3            build_0
moose-tools              2023.12.20        he4b30e4_0
moose-wasp               2023.11.29        build_0
```

## Bug Fixes and Minor Enhancements

- Shorthand functor material property output was added using the [!param](/FunctorMaterials/GenericFunctorMaterial/output_properties) parameter. This automatically creates a [FunctorAux.md] and a constant monomial variable for output, which had to be done manually before.
- Extra element IDs can now be used to assign elements to subdomains in the [ParsedSubdomainMeshGenerator.md].
- The [PropertyReadFile.md] user object can now read multiple files, once every time it is executed. The execution is controlled with the [!param](/UserObjects/PropertyReadFile/execute_on) parameter.
- The [NEML2](syntax/NEML2/index.md) constitutive model library was added to the solid mechanics module as an optional dependency. NEML2 is built on top of libTorch and supports the implementation of device-independent material models (with GPU support).
