tutorials/darcy_thermo_mech/doc/content/workshop/intro/inl_background.md, before:

# Idaho National Laboratory

!style halign=center
www.inl.gov

!---

### Established in 2005, INL is the lead nuclear energy R&D laboratory for the Department of Energy

#### "Establish a world-class capability in the modeling and simulation of advanced energy systems..." style=color:grey;

!---

- INL is the one of the largest employers in Idaho with 5,597 employees and 478 interns
- In 2023 the INL budget was over $1.6 billion

!---

INL is the site where 52 nuclear reactors were designed and constructed, including the
first reactor to generate usable amounts of electricity: Experimental Breeder Reactor I (EBR-1)

!media darcy_thermo_mech/inl_erb1.jpg style=width:30%;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;display:block;

!---

## Advanced Test Reactor (ATR)

- World's most powerful test reactor
- Constructed in 1967
- Volume of 1.4 cubic meters, with 43 kg of uranium, and operates at 60C

!media darcy_thermo_mech/inl_atr.jpg style=width:25%;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;display:block;

!---

## Transient Reactor Test Facility (TREAT)

TREAT is a test facility specifically designed to evaluate the response
of fuels and materials to accident conditions

High-intensity (+20 GW+), short-duration (+80 ms+) neutron pulses for severe accident testing

!media darcy_thermo_mech/inl_treat.png style=width:40%;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;display:block;

!---

## National Reactor Innovation Center (NRIC)

NRIC is composed of two physical test beds to build prototypes of advanced nuclear reactors

- DOME (Demonstration of Microreactor Experiments) in the historic EBR-II facility

- LOTUS (Laboratory for Operation and Testing in the U.S.) in the historic Zero Power Physics Reactor (ZPPR) Cell

And an open-source [online virtual test bed](https://mooseframework.inl.gov/virtual_test_bed)
to demonstrate advanced reactors through modeling and simulation. More information about NRIC can be found at [https://nric.inl.gov](https://nric.inl.gov).

Commit message:

Add Abdalla additional details on test beds

tutorials/darcy_thermo_mech/doc/content/workshop/intro/inl_background.md, after:

# Idaho National Laboratory

!style halign=center
www.inl.gov

!---

### Established in 2005, INL is the lead nuclear energy R&D laboratory for the Department of Energy

#### "Establish a world-class capability in the modeling and simulation of advanced energy systems..." style=color:grey;

!---

- INL is the one of the largest employers in Idaho with 5,597 employees and 478 interns
- In 2023 the INL budget was over $1.6 billion

!---

INL is the site where 52 nuclear reactors were designed and constructed, including the
first reactor to generate usable amounts of electricity: Experimental Breeder Reactor I (EBR-1)

!media darcy_thermo_mech/inl_erb1.jpg style=width:30%;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;display:block;

!---

## Advanced Test Reactor (ATR)

- World's most powerful test reactor
- Constructed in 1967
- Volume of 1.4 cubic meters, with 43 kg of uranium, and operates at 60C

!media darcy_thermo_mech/inl_atr.jpg style=width:25%;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;display:block;

!---

## Transient Reactor Test Facility (TREAT)

TREAT is a test facility specifically designed to evaluate the response
of fuels and materials to accident conditions

High-intensity (+20 GW+), short-duration (+80 ms+) neutron pulses for severe accident testing

!media darcy_thermo_mech/inl_treat.png style=width:40%;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;display:block;

!---

## National Reactor Innovation Center (NRIC)

NRIC is composed of two physical test beds to build prototypes of advanced nuclear reactors

- DOME (Demonstration of Microreactor Experiments) in the historic EBR-II facility, test bed site capable of hosting operational nuclear reactor concepts that produce less than 10MW thermal power

- LOTUS (Laboratory for Operation and Testing in the U.S.) in the historic Zero Power Physics Reactor (ZPPR) Cell, test bed site capable of hosting operational nuclear reactor concepts that produce less than 500kW thermal power

And an open-source [online virtual test bed](https://mooseframework.inl.gov/virtual_test_bed)
to demonstrate advanced reactors through modeling and simulation. More information about NRIC can be found at [https://nric.inl.gov](https://nric.inl.gov).
