# MOOSE Action System

MOOSE *Actions* are used to execute *tasks*. Each application registers
numerous *actions*, *tasks*, and *syntax*. Each task is associated with one or more
actions, and each action may perform one or more tasks. Syntax is used by the
input file parser to generate actions.

Common uses for actions are to perform setup and create MOOSE objects.

## Creating Actions

To create a new action, first derive from the appropriate base class: if the new action
is to correspond to creating MOOSE objects from an input file, then derive
from `MooseObjectAction`; else, derive from `Action`.

The `act()` method must be implemented to perform the associated task(s). If the
action will be registered to multiple tasks, then the variable `_current_task`
can be queried to determine the current task, for example,

``` language=cpp
void
ExampleAction::act()
{
  if (_current_task == "example_task_a")
  {
    // "example_task_a" execution
  }
  else if (_current_task == "example_task_b")
  {
    // "example_task_b" execution
  }
}
```

`MooseObjectAction`s, have the member variables `_type` and `_moose_object_pars`,
which correspond to the type and [InputParameters.md] of the MOOSE object to
be created, respectively. For example, the action to create a BC object has
the following `act()` method:

!listing framework/src/actions/AddBCAction.C re=void\sAddBCAction::act.*?^}

The action should be registered to one or more tasks using the `registerMooseAction`
macro (conventionally in the action source file), for example,

``` language=cpp
registerMooseAction("ExampleApp", ExampleAction, "example_task_a");
registerMooseAction("ExampleApp", ExampleAction, "example_task_b");
```

## Registering Tasks

Like MOOSE objects, tasks and syntax are registered in an application's constructor,
conventionally from a static method called `registerAll`. MOOSE's tasks, actions,
and syntax are defined in [Moose.C](framework/src/base/Moose.C), for example.

Several macros are relevant for registration of tasks and syntax.

Tasks must be registered using the `registerTask` macro:

``` language=cpp
registerTask("task_name", is_required)
```

where `task_name` is the name of the new task, and `is_required` should be set
to `true` if the task is required by the application. A required task always
has all of its associated actions executed, even if no syntax triggers it.

Tasks may have dependencies between them. The macro `addTaskDependency` is
used to declare that a task depends on another, for example,

``` language=cpp
addTaskDependency("secondary_task", "primary_task")
```

Here a task called "secondary_task" will be executed sometime after the task
called "primary_task".

## Registering Syntax

There are two macros associated with registering syntax to an action/task:
`registerSyntax` and `registerSyntaxTask`:

``` language=cpp
registerSyntax(action, syntax);
registerSyntaxTask(action, syntax, task);
```

The difference between these is only apparent when the action has more than one
task registered to it; in this case, the additional argument in
`registerSyntaxTask` specifies which task of the specified action to execute.

For example, the [AddKernelAction.md] is registered to tasks for adding kernels
and aux kernels:

``` language=cpp
registerSyntaxTask("AddKernelAction", "Kernels/*", "add_kernel");
registerSyntaxTask("AddKernelAction", "AuxKernels/*", "add_aux_kernel");
```

The syntax need not be associated only to sub-blocks in the input file. For example,
the existence of a `Mesh` block triggers [SetupMeshCompleteAction.md]:

``` language=cpp
registerSyntax("SetupMeshCompleteAction", "Mesh");
```

Also, note that actions do not necessarily require registration of any associated
syntax to execute a task: if that task is registered as required, then the action
always will be built:

``` language=cpp
registerTask("task_name", true);
```

## Relationship Managers and Actions

If adding any `MooseObjects` in a custom action and those objects have
associated relationship managers, then the
`addRelationshipManagers(Moose::RelationshipManagerType input_rm_type)` must be
overridden. Both
the `ContactAction` in the contact module, and `PorousFlowActionBase` in the
porous flow module provide examples of overriding this method. For the reasons
behind why this must be done in the action system, please see [RelationshipManager.md#rm_action].

## Controlling Action Parameters

Action parameters can be controlled like other MOOSE object parameters. See
[syntax/Controls/index.md#controllable_params_added_by_actions] for more
information.

## Troubleshooting Actions

There are two debugging flags that are particularly useful for troubleshooting
actions/tasks:

- `show_actions`: show the list of actions as they execute (in order).
- `show_action_dependencies`: show the action dependency sets generated by the
  task dependency resolution, with the groups ordered by execution.

These flags are used in a `Debug` block:

```
[Debug]
  show_actions = true
  show_action_dependencies = true
[]
```

## Additional Notes

The following is a list of miscellaneous notes that may be useful to advanced
developers:

- The lifetime of actions is the entire simulation.
- Actions can be obtained via the `ActionWarehouse` with methods such as `getAction`,
  `getActions`, etc.
- Actions may be added by other actions, but the added action will only execute
  for tasks occurring after the task in which the action is added.
