# BatchMeshGeneratorAction

## Overview

This Action is capable of batch generating a series of meshes using a single type of mesh generator with variation in one or multiple input parameters.

The type of mesh generator to be used for batch generation is provided by [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/mesh_generator_type). To batch generate meshes using the selected type of mesh generator, users need to provide both "fixed" input parameters, which keep constant throughout the batch mesh generation, and "batch" input parameters, which vary among generated meshes. For both "fixed" and "batch" input parameters, they can be either `scalar` or `vector` types.

## Specifying Input Parameters

### Fixed Input Parameters

Both `scalar` and `vector` types of fixed input parameters are supported by this Action. 

Names of multiple fixed `scalar` input parameters can be defined by [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/fixed_scalar_input_param_names), with their corresponding types defined by [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/fixed_scalar_input_param_types). In the meantime, the values of these fixed `scalar` input parameters need to be provided through [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/fixed_scalar_input_param_values).

On the other hand, names and the corresponding types of multiple fixed `vector` input parameters can be specified by [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/fixed_vector_input_param_names) and [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/fixed_vector_input_param_types), respectively. The values of these fixed `vector` input parameters are provided through [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/fixed_vector_input_param_values).

### Batch Input Parameters

Likewise, both `scalar` and `vector` types of batch input parameters are supported by this Action.

Similar to the `scalar` and `vector` types of fixed input parameters, the names, types, and values of the batch `scalar` and `vector` input parameters can be specified using [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/batch_scalar_input_param_names), [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/batch_scalar_input_param_types), [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/batch_scalar_input_param_values); as well as [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/batch_vector_input_param_names), [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/batch_vector_input_param_types), [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/batch_vector_input_param_values), respectively. Note that for the batch input parameters, because variation is needed, the dimensions of [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/batch_scalar_input_param_values) and [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/batch_vector_input_param_values) are higher than their fixed counterparts by 1.

### Types of Input Parameters

The supported input parameter types are summarized in [supported_types] for both `scalar` and `vector` types.

!table id=supported_types caption=Summary of the symbols used for supported types of input parameters.
| C++ Vector Data Type | C++ Scalar Data Type | Syntax |
| - | - | - |
| `vector<Real>` | `Real` | `REAL` |
| `vector<short>` | `short` | `SHORT` |
| `vector<unsigned short>` | `unsigned short` | `USHORT` |
| `vector<int>` | `int` | `INT` |
| `vector<unsigned int>` | `unsigned int` | `UINT` |
| `vector<string>` | `string` | `STRING` |
| `MultiMooseEnum` | `MooseEnum` | `ENUM` |
| `vector<bool>` | `bool` | `BOOL` |

It it worth mentioning that some common input parameter types, such as `subdomain_id_type` and `boundary_id_type`, are subject to change at compile time. Users should check the documentation after compilation for the actual integer types. The error message generated by this action can also provide some information.

## Methods to Process Multiple Batch Input Parameters

### Cartesian Product and Corresponding Methods

If more than one batch input parameters (either `scalar` or `vector`) are provided, two methods can be selected using [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/multi_batch_params_method). 

The default method is `cartesian_product`, which batch generates mesh generators based on the Cartesian product of all the batch input parameters. For example, if `m` scalar input parameters are specified using [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/batch_scalar_input_param_names), with the corresponding [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/batch_scalar_input_param_values) containing $N_{s,1}$, $N_{s,2}$,..., and $N_{s,m}$ variations, respectively. Meanwhile, if `n` vector input parameters are specified using [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/batch_vector_input_param_names), with the corresponding [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/batch_vector_input_param_values) containing $N_{v,1}$, $N_{v,2}$,..., and $N_{v,n}$ variations. Using the Cartesian product approach leads to a total of $\prod_{i=0}^{m} N_{s,i}\prod_{j=0}^{n} N_{v,j}$ mesh generators.

On the other hand, an alternative method is `corresponding`, which requires the numbers of variations for all [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/batch_scalar_input_param_names) and [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/batch_vector_input_param_names) to be the same (e.g., $N$). In that case, only $N$ mesh generators are created.

### Naming and Indexing of the Generated Meshes

The generated meshes are named with a prefix as defined in [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/mesh_name_prefix), followed by an index. 

For the `corresponding` method, the index is determined by the order of the provided batch input parameters starting from 0. For example, if $N$ sets of batch input parameters are provided, the generated meshes are named as `[mesh_name_prefix]_0`, `[mesh_name_prefix]_1`, ..., `[mesh_name_prefix]_{N-1}`.

For the `cartesian_product` method, by default, a single index is used for all the batch input parameters. The indexing will first transverse the batch scalar input parameters from the first to the last, and then the batch vector input parameters from the first to the last. Optionally, users can choose to decompose the index into multiple indices for each batch input parameter by setting [!param](/Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction/use_decomposed_index) as `true`. In that case, the generated meshes are named as `mesh_name_prefix`_{$i_{s_1}$}_{$i_{s_2}$}_..._{$i_{s_m}$}_{$i_{v_1}$}_{$i_{v_2}$}_..._{$i_{v_n}$}, where $i_{s_1}$, $i_{s_2}$, ...,$i_{s_m}$ are the indices for the batch scalar input parameters starting from 0, and $i_{v_1}$, $i_{v_2}$, ...,$i_{v_n}$ are the indices for the batch vector input parameters starting from 0.

For example, if there are two batch scalar input parameters, $s_1$ with 2 variations and $s_2$ with 3 variations, and one batch vector input parameter, $v_1$ with 2 variations, the generated meshes are named and indexed as shown in [indexing].

!table id=indexing caption=Comparison between single and decomposed indexing.
| $s_1$ | $s_2$ | $v_1$ | Single Indexing | Decomposed Indexing |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| 0 | 0 | 0 | `mesh_name_prefix_0` | `mesh_name_prefix_0_0_0` |
| 1 | 0 | 0 | `mesh_name_prefix_1` | `mesh_name_prefix_1_0_0` |
| 0 | 1 | 0 | `mesh_name_prefix_2` | `mesh_name_prefix_0_1_0` |
| 1 | 1 | 0 | `mesh_name_prefix_3` | `mesh_name_prefix_1_1_0` |
| 0 | 2 | 0 | `mesh_name_prefix_4` | `mesh_name_prefix_0_2_0` |
| 1 | 2 | 0 | `mesh_name_prefix_5` | `mesh_name_prefix_1_2_0` |
| 0 | 0 | 1 | `mesh_name_prefix_6` | `mesh_name_prefix_0_0_1` |
| 1 | 0 | 1 | `mesh_name_prefix_7` | `mesh_name_prefix_1_0_1` |
| 0 | 1 | 1 | `mesh_name_prefix_8` | `mesh_name_prefix_0_1_1` |
| 1 | 1 | 1 | `mesh_name_prefix_9` | `mesh_name_prefix_1_1_1` |
| 0 | 2 | 1 | `mesh_name_prefix_10` | `mesh_name_prefix_0_2_1` |
| 1 | 2 | 1 | `mesh_name_prefix_11` | `mesh_name_prefix_1_2_1` |

!syntax parameters /Mesh/BatchMeshGeneratorAction
