# AzimuthalBlockSplitGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/AzimuthalBlockSplitGenerator

## Overview

The `AzimuthalBlockSplitGenerator` object is used to modify a mesh generated by either [`PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator`](/PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.md) or [`HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator`](/HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator.md). The input mesh can consist of either linear elements or quadratic elements. This object divides each selected radial block in the original mesh into two azimuthal sections and moves the nodes to the exact azimuthal positions.

Multiple radial blocks, which are defined by [!param](/Mesh/AzimuthalBlockSplitGenerator/old_blocks), can be modified simultaneously. The azimuthal range of the new blocks is defined by [!param](/Mesh/AzimuthalBlockSplitGenerator/start_angle) and [!param](/Mesh/AzimuthalBlockSplitGenerator/angle_range) in degrees. The algorithm finds the nodes that have azimuthal angles closest to the given azimuthal range and moves them to the exact azimuthal positions. If the external block (i.e., the block that contains the external boundary of the mesh) is not selected to be modified, the nodes on the external boundary are not altered by this object to facilitate mesh stitching. On the other hand, if the external block is selected, the nodes on the external boundary are moved as well. See [Figure 1](#schematic) for more details.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/aziblock.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=schematic
      caption=A schematic drawing showing the functionalities of this `AzimuthalBlockSplitGenerator` object.

As moving nodes in the azimuthal direction changes the volumes of the circular blocks, the volume preservation radius correction is made if [!param](/Mesh/AzimuthalBlockSplitGenerator/preserve_volumes) is set as true.

If the [!param](/Mesh/AzimuthalBlockSplitGenerator/input) mesh is generated by [`PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator`](/PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.md) with [!param](/Mesh/PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator/quad_center_elements) set as true, and if the block that contains these quadrilateral central elements is selected in [!param](/Mesh/AzimuthalBlockSplitGenerator/old_blocks), an error message is issued because no nodes in that block should be moved. The central pattern of quad elements is not designed to be arbitrarily modified to align its nodes with azimuthal sectors.

## Example Syntax

!listing modules/reactor/test/tests/meshgenerators/azimuthal_block_split_generator/azi_block_id_mod.i block=Mesh/cd_azi_define

!syntax parameters /Mesh/AzimuthalBlockSplitGenerator

!syntax inputs /Mesh/AzimuthalBlockSplitGenerator

!syntax children /Mesh/AzimuthalBlockSplitGenerator
