# CartesianConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/CartesianConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator

## Overview

The `CartesianConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator` object generates a 2D mesh for concentric circles with a square enclosure with or without external ducts. It is similar to [`PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator`](/PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.md) and the majority of the parameters and functionalities of this object are described in the documentation of [`PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator`](/PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.md). The major unique feature of this object is that the [!param](/Mesh/CartesianConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator/num_sectors_per_side) parameter will be overridden to enable stitching to another square mesh (provided via [!param](/Mesh/CartesianConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator/meshes_to_adapt_to) to this object). This object therefore creates square meshes that can be directly stitched with square meshes generated by [`PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator`](/PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.md) and [`PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator`](/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator.md). This object only works for squares instead of general polygons.

### More Information

In order to adapt the external boundary to match input meshes (typically generated by [`PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator`](/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator.md)), two extra input parameters must be provided:

- [!param](/Mesh/CartesianConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator/sides_to_adapt): a vector parameter that can include up to four elements which lists the reference square side numbers to adaptively mesh. These entries must be non-repeating integers from 0 to 3 (see [Figure 1](#schematic)). The square sides are indexed counterclockwise starting from the top side.
- [!param](/Mesh/CartesianConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator/meshes_to_adapt_to): a vector parameter that includes the same number of elements as [!param](/Mesh/CartesianConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator/sides_to_adapt). These elements are input square meshes whose boundary nodes will be queried and used to adaptively mesh a side of the square mesh being created. The input square meshes are generated by [`PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator`](/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator.md) or [`PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator`](/PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.md). Multiple meshes may be input, each one corresponding to the side index value specified in [!param](/Mesh/CartesianConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator/sides_to_adapt). The same input mesh may be repeated multiple times.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/Square.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=schematic
      caption=A schematic drawing showing the square side indices in `CartesianConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator` object.

The [!param](/Mesh/CartesianConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator/square_size) provided here must be consistent with the [!param](/Mesh/CartesianConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator/square_size) values of all the [!param](/Mesh/CartesianConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator/meshes_to_adapt_to) generators.

One major application of this object is to generate meshes for control drums. In that case, [!param](/Mesh/CartesianConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator/is_control_drum) can be set as true so that corresponding `MeshMetaData` can be generated for future use with control drum related objects.

## Example Syntax

!listing modules/reactor/test/tests/meshgenerators/cartesian_concentric_circle_adaptive_boundary_generator/square_2d.i block=Mesh

Here, a simple square mesh stored in an Exodus file is used as the input of `CartesianConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator`. Only Side 0 of the generated mesh is set to adapt the input mesh (i.e., Side 2 of the input mesh), as shown in [Figure 2](#cart_adapt). Note that only Side 0 of the generated mesh matches the input mesh (Side 2).

!media reactor/meshgenerators/cart_adapt.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=cart_adapt
      caption=A schematic drawing showing the input and generated meshes of the example case.

!syntax parameters /Mesh/CartesianConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator

!syntax inputs /Mesh/CartesianConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator

!syntax children /Mesh/CartesianConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator
