# FlexiblePatternGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator

## Overview

`FlexiblePatternGenerator` enhances the capabilities provided in [`PatternedHexMeshGenerator`](PatternedHexMeshGenerator.md) and [`PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator`](PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator.md) by providing more flexibility in both patterning and background shape. It can be used when the background shape is not a hexagon or square and/or when the pin pattern does not follow a hexagonal or cartesian grid.

## Background Shape

Instead of the fixed hexagonal and cartesian background shapes provided respectively by `PatternedHexMeshGenerator` and `PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator`, `FlexiblePatternGenerator` allows adoption of a closed curve of any type, provided by [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/boundary_mesh), to be used as the external boundary of the background region, with [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/boundary_type) set as `CUSTOM`. The [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/boundary_mesh) needs to be a mesh containing a single closed curve that resides in the XY plane and consists of only `EDGE2` elements. Examples of such curve meshes include polygon curves generated by [`PolyLineMeshGenerator`](PolyLineMeshGenerator.md), more generalized curves generated by [`ParsedCurveGenerator`](ParsedCurveGenerator.md), and even externally generated curves through [`FileMeshGenerator`](FileMeshGenerator.md).

If a hexagonal, Cartesian, or circular external boundary are desired, [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/boundary_type) should be set as as `HEXAGON`, `CARTESIAN`, and `CIRCLE`, respectively. In that case, [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/boundary_size) and [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/boundary_sectors) also need to be specified. Users can also define a custom id and name for the external boundary by using [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/external_boundary_id) and [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/external_boundary_name), respectively. By default, the external boundary will be assigned the following ID to be compatible with other Reactor Module tools:

!listing include/meshgenerators/PolygonMeshGeneratorBase.h line=OUTER_SIDESET_ID =

The background region is meshed by [`XYDelaunayGenerator`](XYDelaunayGenerator.md) through MOOSE's sub-meshgenerator capability. Some key parameters of `XYDelaunayGenerator` (e.g., [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/desired_area), [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/desired_area_func), [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/verify_holes), [!param](/Mesh/XYDelaunayGenerator/use_auto_area_func), [!param](/Mesh/XYDelaunayGenerator/auto_area_func_default_size), [!param](/Mesh/XYDelaunayGenerator/auto_area_func_default_size_dist), [!param](/Mesh/XYDelaunayGenerator/auto_area_function_num_points), and [!param](/Mesh/XYDelaunayGenerator/auto_area_function_power)) can be set here and then directly passed to `XYDelaunayGenerator`. The block id and names can be optionally specified through [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/background_subdomain_id) and [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/background_subdomain_name).

## Patterning

Within the interior region defined by [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/boundary_mesh), `FlexiblePatternGenerator` can place single or multiple patterns of input unit meshes provided by [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/inputs). Supporting patterning mode includes hexagonal, rectangular, and circular geometry. In addition, free-style patterning is supported by directly providing positions of unit meshes. Styles of patterns can be combined as well when using multiple patterns.
The details are discussed as follows.

### Hexagonal Patterning

One or several hexagonal patterns of input unit meshes can be generated. These patterns are provided by a triple-indexed input parameter [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/hex_patterns). Each element of [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/hex_patterns) follows the same format as the [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/pattern) parameter in [`PatternedHexMeshGenerator`](PatternedHexMeshGenerator.md). The origin position of each pattern is defined through [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/hex_origins), while the patterning pitches are provided by [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/hex_pitches). Each hexagonal pattern can be rotated around its own origin independently, as directed by [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/hex_rotations). Here, a `zero` rotation angle leads to a hexagonal pattern with its flat side parallel to x-axis (so that patterns in [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/hex_patterns) are intuitive).

!listing modules/reactor/test/tests/meshgenerators/flexible_pattern_generator/double_hex_pattern.i
         block=Mesh/fpg
         id=hex_pattern
         caption=Input example of hexagonal patterning.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/double_hex_pattern.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=double_hex_pattern
      caption=Output example of hexagonal patterning.

### Rectangular Patterning 

One or several rectangular patterns of input unit meshes can be generated. These patterns are provided by a triple-indexed input parameter [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/rect_patterns). Each element of [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/rect_patterns) follows the same format as the [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/pattern) parameter in [`PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator`](PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator.md) but allows general rectangular patterning instead of restricted square patterning. The origin position of each pattern is defined through [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/rect_origins), while the patterning pitches in both directions are provided by [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/rect_pitches_x) and [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/rect_pitches_y), respectively. Each rectangular pattern can be rotated around its own origin independently, as directed by [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/rect_rotations).

!listing modules/reactor/test/tests/meshgenerators/flexible_pattern_generator/single_rect_pattern.i
         block=Mesh/fpg
         id=rect_pattern
         caption=Input example of rectangular patterning.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/single_rect_pattern.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=single_rect_pattern
      caption=Output example of rectangular patterning.

### Circular Patterning

One or several circular patterns of input unit meshes can be generated. The patterns are provided by a double-indexed input parameter [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/circular_patterns). Each element of [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/circular_patterns) lists all the unit meshes uniformly distributed on a circle. The origin position of each pattern is defined through [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/circular_origins), while the radius of each pattern is provided by [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/circular_radii), respectively. Each circular pattern can be rotated around its own origin independently, as directed by [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/circular_rotations). The first unit mesh will be positioned at the azimuthal angle defined as in [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/circular_rotations), while the following unit meshes will be positioned uniformly on the circle counterclockwise.

!listing modules/reactor/test/tests/meshgenerators/flexible_pattern_generator/single_circ_pattern.i
         block=Mesh/fpg
         id=circ_pattern
         caption=Input example of circular patterning.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/single_circ_pattern.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=single_circ_pattern
      caption=Output example of circular patterning.

### Custom Patterning

In addition to the hexagonal, rectangular and circular patterning, users can specify the positions of unit meshes freely using [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/extra_positions). Corresponding to each position provided in [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/extra_positions), an input unit mesh index needs to be provided in [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/extra_positions_mg_indices).

!listing modules/reactor/test/tests/meshgenerators/flexible_pattern_generator/custom_pattern.i
         block=Mesh/fpg
         id=custom_pattern
         caption=Input example of custom patterning.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/custom_pattern.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=custom_pattern_m
      caption=Output example of custom patterning.

### Dummy Unit Meshes

In both [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/hex_patterns) and [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/rect_patterns), the use of an input unit mesh index greater than or equal to the size of [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/inputs) indicates that patterning position is a dummy and no input unit mesh will be assigned to that position. This feature allows creation of partial patterning.

!listing modules/reactor/test/tests/meshgenerators/flexible_pattern_generator/mixed_pattern.i
         block=Mesh/fpg
         id=mixed_pattern
         caption=Input example of mixed patterning with dummy unit meshes.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/mixed_pattern.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=mixed_pattern_m
      caption=Output example of mixed patterning with dummy unit meshes.

## Extra Element ID Assignment for Unit Meshes

For each unit mesh involved in the patterning, two types of extra element IDs can be automatically assigned to facilitate subsequent data analysis, using different assignment modes.

The `cell` style extra element ID can be specified using the [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/cell_id_name) parameter. It is similar to the `cell` option in [`PatternedHexMeshGenerator`](/PatternedHexMeshGenerator.md)'s [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/assign_type) parameter, which assigns a unique extra element ID for each component unit mesh in sequential order. On the other hand, the `pattern` style extra element ID can be specified using the [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/pattern_id_name) parameter. It is similar to the `pattern` option in [`PatternedHexMeshGenerator`](/PatternedHexMeshGenerator.md)'s [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/assign_type) parameter, which assigns the extra element ID based on the IDs (i.e., sequential order) of the input meshes defined in [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/inputs). By default, both assigned extra element IDs begin with 0 and increment by 1. Alternatively, these generated extra element IDs can be shifted using the [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/cell_id_shift) and [!param](/Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator/pattern_id_shift), respectively.

!syntax parameters /Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator

!syntax inputs /Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator

!syntax children /Mesh/FlexiblePatternGenerator
