# GapLineMeshGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/GapLineMeshGenerator

## Overview

In the mesh generation for reactor geometries, it is often necessary to create unmeshed gaps along the external boundaries of components. The gap is meant to have a uniform thickness all around the boundary. This `GapLineMeshGenerator` class provides functionality to generate a polyline mesh (similar to the meshes generated by [`PolyLineMeshGenerator`](/PolyLineMeshGenerator.md)) with a specified gap thickness based on an 2D input mesh residing in the XY plane. If no specific boundary IDs are provided ([!param](/Mesh/GapLineMeshGenerator/boundary_ids)), the mesh generator will extract the external boundary of the input mesh to create the gap. In that case, the input mesh must be a connected mesh with only one outer boundary manifold. Otherwise, only the specified boundary IDs will be used to create the gap. The generated polyline mesh can then be used for further mesh generation processes, such as [`XYDelaunayGenerator`](/XYDelaunayGenerator.md).

## Methods

This mesh generator first utilizes the `libMesh` utility used by [`XYDelaunayGenerator`](/XYDelaunayGenerator.md) to extract the external boundary or the specified boundary of the input mesh ([!param](/Mesh/GapLineMeshGenerator/input)). The boundary vertices are then shifted outward along the averaged normal directions of the connected edges to form the designated gap thickness ([!param](/Mesh/GapLineMeshGenerator/thickness)). The shifted vertices are then connected to form a new polyline mesh representing the gap using the meshing utilities of [`PolyLineMeshGenerator`](/PolyLineMeshGenerator.md).

The gap can be created either outward or inward with respect to the boundary of the input mesh by specifying the gap direction ([!param](/Mesh/GapLineMeshGenerator/gap_direction)). This direction is defined with regards to the volume enclosed by the boundaries specified (or the entire input mesh if unspecified).

By default, this mesh generator only captures the vertices of the input mesh that are on the polygon boundary and generate only one `EDGE2` element for each side of the polygon. In that case, users need to rely on the refinement capabilities in [`XYDelaunayGenerator`](/XYDelaunayGenerator.md) to achieve the desired mesh density. Alternatively, users can specify a maximum element size ([!param](/Mesh/GapLineMeshGenerator/max_elem_size)) to have this mesh generator automatically insert additional nodes along each side of the polygon.

## Examples

A simple example shown here is based on a set of patterned hexagons. As shown in [simple_gap], the generated polyline mesh without refinement only contains one `EDGE2` element for each side of the hexagons with a gap from the original hexagons' sides.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/simple_gap.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=simple_gap
      caption=A simple non-refined polyline mesh that is generated around set of patterned hexagons, distanced with a gap in the outward direction.

After specifying a maximum element size, additional nodes are inserted along each side of the hexagons to create smaller `EDGE2` elements, as shown in [refined_gap]. Finally, using the refined polyline mesh as input, a triangular mesh with a circular outer boundary is generated by [`XYDelaunayGenerator`](/XYDelaunayGenerator.md) as shown in [gap_mesh].

!media reactor/meshgenerators/refined_gap.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=refined_gap
      caption=A refined polyline mesh that is generated around a set of patterned hexagons with a gap in the outward direction.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/gap_mesh.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=gap_mesh
      caption=A triangular mesh that is generated based on the refined polyline mesh ([refined_gap]) and a circular outer boundary.

!syntax parameters /Mesh/GapLineMeshGenerator

!syntax inputs /Mesh/GapLineMeshGenerator

!syntax children /Mesh/GapLineMeshGenerator
