# GapMeshGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/GapMeshGenerator

## Overview

In the mesh generation for reactor geometries, it is often necessary to create unmeshed gaps along the external boundaries of components. The gap is meant to have a uniform thickness all around the boundary. This `GapMeshGenerator` class provides functionality to generate a polyline mesh (similar to the meshes generated by [`PolyLineMeshGenerator`](/PolyLineMeshGenerator.md)) with a specified gap thickness based on an 2D input mesh residing in the XY plane. The input mesh must be a connected mesh with only one outer boundary manifold. The generated polyline mesh can then be used for further mesh generation processes, such as [`XYDelaunayGenerator`](/XYDelaunayGenerator.md).

## Methods

This mesh generator first utilizes the `libMesh` utility used by [`XYDelaunayGenerator`](/XYDelaunayGenerator.md) to extract the external boundary of the input mesh ([!param](/Mesh/GapMeshGenerator/input)). The boundary vertices are then shifted outward along the averaged normal directions of the connected edges to form the designated gap thickness ([!param](/Mesh/GapMeshGenerator/thickness)). The shifted vertices are then connected to form a new polyline mesh representing the gap using the meshing utilities of [`PolyLineMeshGenerator`](/PolyLineMeshGenerator.md).

By default, this mesh generator only captures the vertices of the input mesh that are on the external polygon boundary and generate only one `EDGE2` element for each side of the polygon. In that case, users need to rely on the refinement capabilities in [`XYDelaunayGenerator`](/XYDelaunayGenerator.md) to achieve the desired mesh density. Optionally, users can specify a maximum element size ([!param](/Mesh/GapMeshGenerator/max_elem_size)) to have this mesh generator automatically insert additional nodes along each side of the polygon.

## Examples

A simple example shown here is based on a set of patterned hexagons. As shown in [simple_gap], the generated polyline mesh without refinement only contains one `EDGE2` element for each side of the hexagons with a gap from the original hexagons.

!media meshgenerators/simple_gap.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=simple_gap
      caption=A simple non-refined polyline mesh that is generated around set of patterned hexagons, distanced with a gap.

After specifying a maximum element size, additional nodes are inserted along each side of the hexagons to create smaller `EDGE2` elements, as shown in [refined_gap]. Finally, using the refined polyline mesh as input, a triangular mesh with a circular outer boundary is generated by [`XYDelaunayGenerator`](/XYDelaunayGenerator.md) as shown in [gap_mesh].

!media meshgenerators/refined_gap.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=refined_gap
      caption=A refined polyline mesh that is generated around a set of patterned hexagons with a gap.

!media meshgenerators/gap_mesh.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=gap_mesh
      caption=A triangular mesh that is generated based on the refined polyline mesh ([refined_gap]) and a circular outer boundary.

!syntax parameters /Mesh/GapMeshGenerator

!syntax inputs /Mesh/GapMeshGenerator

!syntax children /Mesh/GapMeshGenerator
