# HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator

## Overview

The `HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator` object generates a 2D mesh for concentric circles with a hexagon enclosure with or without external ducts. It is similar to [`PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator`](/PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.md) and the majority of the parameters and functionalities of this object are described in the documentation of [`PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator`](/PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.md). The major unique feature of this object is that the [!param](/Mesh/HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator/num_sectors_per_side) parameter will be overridden to enable stitching to another hexagonal mesh (provided via [!param](/Mesh/HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator/meshes_to_adapt_to) to this object). This object therefore creates hexagonal meshes that can be directly stitched with hexagonal meshes generated by [`PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator`](/PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.md) and [`PatternedHexMeshGenerator`](/PatternedHexMeshGenerator.md). This object only works for hexagons instead of general polygons.

### More Information

In order to adapt the external boundary to match input meshes (typically generated by [`PatternedHexMeshGenerator`](/PatternedHexMeshGenerator.md)), two extra input parameters must be provided:

- [!param](/Mesh/HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator/sides_to_adapt): a vector parameter that can include up to six elements which lists the reference hexagon side numbers to adaptively mesh. These entries must be non-repeating integers from 0 to 5 (see [Figure 1](#schematic)). The hexagon sides are indexed counterclockwise starting from the upper-right side.
- [!param](/Mesh/HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator/meshes_to_adapt_to): a vector parameter that includes the same number of elements as [!param](/Mesh/HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator/sides_to_adapt). These elements are input hexagonal meshes whose boundary nodes will be queried and used to adaptively mesh a side of the hexagonal mesh being created. The input hexagonal meshes are generated by [`PatternedHexMeshGenerator`](/PatternedHexMeshGenerator.md) or [`PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator`](/PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.md). Multiple meshes may be input, each one corresponding to the side index value specified in [!param](/Mesh/HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator/sides_to_adapt). The same input mesh may be repeated multiple times.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/polygon.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=schematic
      caption=A schematic drawing showing the hexagon side indices in `HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator` object.

The [!param](/Mesh/HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator/hexagon_size) provided here must be consistent with the [!param](/Mesh/HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator/hexagon_size) values of all the [!param](/Mesh/HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator/meshes_to_adapt_to) generators.

One major application of this object is to generate meshes for control drums. In that case, [!param](/Mesh/HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator/is_control_drum) can be set as true so that corresponding `MeshMetaData` can be generated for future use with control drum related objects.

## Example Syntax

!listing modules/reactor/test/tests/meshgenerators/hexagon_concentric_circle_adaptive_boundary_generator/hex_2d.i block=Mesh

Here, a simple hexagon mesh stored in an Exodus file is used as the input of `HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator`. Only Side 0 of the generated mesh is set to adapt the input mesh (i.e., Side 3 of the input mesh), as shown in [Figure 2](#hex_adapt). Note that only Side 0 of the generated mesh matches the input mesh (Side 3).

!media reactor/meshgenerators/hex_adapt.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=hex_adapt
      caption=A schematic drawing showing the input and generated meshes of the example case.

!syntax parameters /Mesh/HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator

!syntax inputs /Mesh/HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator

!syntax children /Mesh/HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator
