modules/reactor/doc/content/source/meshgenerators/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator.md, before:

# PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator

## Overview

The `PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator` object generates a 2D mesh by stitching cartesian (square-shaped) meshes generated by [`PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator`](/PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.md), [`CartesianConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator`](/CartesianConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator.md), and itself, based on a user-defined square grid pattern. The generated 2D mesh can optionally contain an extra background region and/or external duct regions to form an expanded square external shape rather than a purely stacked square of squares.

## Geometry Information

In order to generate the square patterned mesh, three fundamental parameters are needed:

- [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/inputs): a vector of mesh generator names that will be used as elements to form the patterned mesh;
- [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/pattern): a two-dimensional vector that represents the pattern of mesh to be generated. The elements must be integers from 0 to N-1, where N is the length of vector parameter [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/inputs).
- [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/pattern_boundary): a MooseEnum parameter that can be either `none` or `expanded`. When `none` is selected, this object only stitches [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/inputs) meshes into a patterned mesh without extraneous geometry, resulting in a simply stacked square of unit squares. When `expanded` is selected, a background region is added so that the generated mesh has an expanded square shape instead of a simply stacked one. Concentric duct regions may also be optionally added to the square periphery when this parameter is `expanded`. The user can refer to [Figure 1](#pattern_cart) for more details.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/pattern_cart.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=pattern_cart
      caption=A schematic showing the difference between `none` and `expanded` `pattern_boundary`.

When [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/pattern_boundary) is set as `expanded`, the user can also provide [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/duct_sizes) in either `apothem` (center-to-face) or `radius` (center-to-vertex) style determined by [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/duct_sizes_style) to add external duct regions to the generated square mesh. Also, [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/square_size) must also be provided to define the external square boundary size. In some cases, if [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/square_size) is small enough, the square external boundary may cut off some of the stitched square meshes. As long as the concentric circular (`rings`) regions are not cut off, the rest of the mesh is deformed to accommodate the limited external boundaries. Users can also set [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/deform_non_circular_region) as `false` to prevent the non-circular regions from being deformed.

## Control Drum Related MeshMetaData

One of the applications of this object is to generate meshes for reactor cores with control drums. In that case, by setting [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/generate_core_metadata) as true, control drum meshes can also be used as part of [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/inputs) to construct the core mesh. To facilitate the use of control drum rotation simulation objects, a series of `MeshMetaData` can be generated, including:

- `control_drum_positions`: a vector of control drum center positions. This `MeshMetaData` can also be outputted as an ASCII file by setting [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/generate_control_drum_positions_file) as true and providing [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/position_file);
- `control_drum_angles`: a vector of the azimuthal angles of the control drum center positions to the center of the core.
- `control_drums_azimuthal_meta`: a two-dimensional vector containing the sorted azimuthal angles of nodes to the corresponding control drum center for all the control drums.

In addition, [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/assign_control_drum_id) can be set as true so that the control drum [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/inputs) meshes can be indexed using an element extra integer called `control_drum_id`. As illustrated in [Figure 2](#cd_id), the `control_drum_id` is indexed based on the azimuthal angles of the control drums.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/azi_cd_cart.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=cd_id
      caption=A schematic drawing the indexing rule of `control_drum_id` in the `PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator` object.

These `MeshMetaData` as well as `control_drum_id` can be used by other MOOSE objects such as [`MultiControlDrumFunction`](/MultiControlDrumFunction.md) to simulate control drums rotation during power transients.

## Interface Boundaries

The user can also decide whether the interface boundaries are generated or not in the peripheral region. 

!include /PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.md start=There are two types end=The user can set

The user can set [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/create_inward_interface_boundaries) and [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/create_outward_interface_boundaries) to control which interface boundaries will be created. If generated, the outward interface boundaries will be assigned ids using sequential odd numbers (i.e., 1, 3, 5, 7, ...) shifted by `INTRINSIC_SIDESET_ID::SLICE_ALT`=30500 from center to periphery, while the inward interface boundaries will be assigned ids using sequential even numbers (i.e., 0, 2, 4, 6, ...) shifted by `INTRINSIC_SIDESET_ID::SLICE_ALT` similarly. 

## Example Syntax

!listing modules/reactor/test/tests/meshgenerators/patterned_cartesian_mesh_generator/patterned_pattern.i block=Mesh/pattern

!syntax parameters /Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator

!syntax inputs /Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator

!syntax children /Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator

Commit message:

add reporting ID capabilities to PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator, idaholab#23224

modules/reactor/doc/content/source/meshgenerators/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator.md, after:

# PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator

## Overview

The `PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator` object generates a 2D mesh by stitching cartesian (square-shaped) meshes generated by [`PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator`](/PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.md), [`CartesianConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator`](/CartesianConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator.md), and itself, based on a user-defined square grid pattern. The generated 2D mesh can optionally contain an extra background region and/or external duct regions to form an expanded square external shape rather than a purely stacked square of squares.

## Geometry Information

In order to generate the square patterned mesh, three fundamental parameters are needed:

- [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/inputs): a vector of mesh generator names that will be used as elements to form the patterned mesh;
- [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/pattern): a two-dimensional vector that represents the pattern of mesh to be generated. The elements must be integers from 0 to N-1, where N is the length of vector parameter [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/inputs).
- [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/pattern_boundary): a MooseEnum parameter that can be either `none` or `expanded`. When `none` is selected, this object only stitches [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/inputs) meshes into a patterned mesh without extraneous geometry, resulting in a simply stacked square of unit squares. When `expanded` is selected, a background region is added so that the generated mesh has an expanded square shape instead of a simply stacked one. Concentric duct regions may also be optionally added to the square periphery when this parameter is `expanded`. The user can refer to [Figure 1](#pattern_cart) for more details.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/pattern_cart.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=pattern_cart
      caption=A schematic showing the difference between `none` and `expanded` `pattern_boundary`.

When [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/pattern_boundary) is set as `expanded`, the user can also provide [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/duct_sizes) in either `apothem` (center-to-face) or `radius` (center-to-vertex) style determined by [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/duct_sizes_style) to add external duct regions to the generated square mesh. Also, [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/square_size) must also be provided to define the external square boundary size. In some cases, if [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/square_size) is small enough, the square external boundary may cut off some of the stitched square meshes. As long as the concentric circular (`rings`) regions are not cut off, the rest of the mesh is deformed to accommodate the limited external boundaries. Users can also set [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/deform_non_circular_region) as `false` to prevent the non-circular regions from being deformed.

## Control Drum Related MeshMetaData

One of the applications of this object is to generate meshes for reactor cores with control drums. In that case, by setting [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/generate_core_metadata) as true, control drum meshes can also be used as part of [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/inputs) to construct the core mesh. To facilitate the use of control drum rotation simulation objects, a series of `MeshMetaData` can be generated, including:

- `control_drum_positions`: a vector of control drum center positions. This `MeshMetaData` can also be outputted as an ASCII file by setting [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/generate_control_drum_positions_file) as true and providing [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/position_file);
- `control_drum_angles`: a vector of the azimuthal angles of the control drum center positions to the center of the core.
- `control_drums_azimuthal_meta`: a two-dimensional vector containing the sorted azimuthal angles of nodes to the corresponding control drum center for all the control drums.

In addition, [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/assign_control_drum_id) can be set as true so that the control drum [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/inputs) meshes can be indexed using an element extra integer called `control_drum_id`. As illustrated in [Figure 2](#cd_id), the `control_drum_id` is indexed based on the azimuthal angles of the control drums.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/azi_cd_cart.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=cd_id
      caption=A schematic drawing the indexing rule of `control_drum_id` in the `PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator` object.

These `MeshMetaData` as well as `control_drum_id` can be used by other MOOSE objects such as [`MultiControlDrumFunction`](/MultiControlDrumFunction.md) to simulate control drums rotation during power transients.

## Interface Boundaries

The user can also decide whether the interface boundaries are generated or not in the peripheral region. 

!include /PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.md start=There are two types end=The user can set

The user can set [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/create_inward_interface_boundaries) and [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/create_outward_interface_boundaries) to control which interface boundaries will be created. If generated, the outward interface boundaries will be assigned ids using sequential odd numbers (i.e., 1, 3, 5, 7, ...) shifted by `INTRINSIC_SIDESET_ID::SLICE_ALT`=30500 from center to periphery, while the inward interface boundaries will be assigned ids using sequential even numbers (i.e., 0, 2, 4, 6, ...) shifted by `INTRINSIC_SIDESET_ID::SLICE_ALT` similarly. 

## Reporting ID Information

This object can generate a Cartesian lattice mesh with `reporting ID` assignments.
It can be used successively on another `PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator` output mesh to add IDs on the pin and assembly levels, for example.
The reporting ID option can be turned on by defining the name of the reporting ID variable is provided through [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/id_name).

Reporting IDs are assigned to all elements in each tile of the pattern following a per-tile assignment strategy.
A user can select an ID assignment scheme using [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/assign_type), and the following schemes are currently available:

- `cell` (default):  Assign unique IDs for each component/tile in the lattice in sequential order.

- `pattern`:  Assign IDs based on the ID of the input tiles.

- `manual`: Assign IDs based on user-defined mapping defined in [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/id_pattern).

The default numbering scheme starts at 0 in the upper left hand corner of Cartesian grid (not including duct region) and increments by 1 as the grid is traversed left to right, top to bottom
In presence of duct regions, separate reporting IDs are automatically generated for the elements in duct regions.
For the `pattern` scheme, all tiles in the pattern with the same input will bear the same reporting ID.
The duct regions will be assigned reporting IDs starting from the next integer higher than the highest one used inside of the ducts.

The name of the reporting ID variable is provided through [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/id_name) depending on the hierarchical level of component.
The ID values themselves are stored as extra element integers on the mesh.
For example, the reporting IDs for individual pins (`pin_id`) can be assigned when assemblies are built because the IDs for pin level are uniquely determined from the pin arrangement within each assembly type.
Similarly, the assembly reporting IDs (`assembly_id`) are assigned in the core construction process.

Certain regions can be excluded from being labeled with an ID, for example dummy regions that will later be deleted.
This can be accommodated by listing mesh objects in the [!param](/Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator/exclude_id) input parameter.
IDs will not be assigned to these mesh objects.
Usage of this parameter is helpful to retain sequential numbering when dummy region are later deleted, or to only label areas of interest.

## Example Syntax

!listing modules/reactor/test/tests/meshgenerators/patterned_cartesian_mesh_generator/patterned_pattern.i block=Mesh/pattern

!syntax parameters /Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator

!syntax inputs /Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator

!syntax children /Mesh/PatternedCartesianMeshGenerator
