modules/reactor/doc/content/source/meshgenerators/PatternedHexMeshGenerator.md, before:

# PatternedHexMeshGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator

## Overview

The `PatternedHexMeshGenerator` object generates a 2D mesh by stitching hexagonal meshes generated by [`PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator`](/PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.md), [`HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator`](/HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator.md), and itself, based on a user-defined hexagonal grid pattern. The generated 2D mesh can optionally contain an extra background region and/or external duct regions to form a hexagonal external shape rather than a jagged boundary edge.

## Geometry Information

In order to generate the hexagonal patterned mesh, three fundamental parameters are needed:

- [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/inputs): a vector of mesh generator names that will be used as elements to form the patterned mesh;
- [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/pattern): a two-dimensional vector that represents the pattern of mesh to be generated. The elements must be integers from 0 to N-1, where N is the length of vector parameter [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/inputs).
- [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/pattern_boundary): a MooseEnum parameter that can be either `hexagon` or `none`. When `none` is selected, this object only stitches [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/inputs) meshes into a patterned mesh without extraneous geometry, resulting in an outer boundary with a zig-zag edge. When `hexagon` is selected, a background region is added so that the generated mesh has a hexagonal shape instead of a zig-zag one. Concentric duct regions may also be optionally added to the hexagon periphery when this parameter is `hexagon`. The user can refer to [Figure 1](#pattern_hex) for more details.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/pattern_hex.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=pattern_hex
      caption=A schematic showing the difference between `none` and `hexagon` `pattern_boundary`.

When [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/pattern_boundary) is set as `hexagon`, the user can also provide [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/duct_sizes) in either `apothem` or `radius` style to add external duct regions to the generated hexagon mesh. Also, [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/hexagon_size) must also be provided to define the external hexagon boundary size, which can be either `apothem` or `radius` of the hexagon, as determined by [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/hexagon_size_style). In some cases, if [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/hexagon_size) is small enough, the hexagon external boundary may cut off some of the stitched hexagonal meshes. As long as the concentric circular (`rings`) regions are not cut off, the rest of the mesh is deformed to accommodate the limited external boundaries. Users can also set [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/deform_non_circular_region) as `false` to prevent the non-circular regions from being deformed.

## Control Drum Related MeshMetaData

One of the applications of this object is to generate meshes for prismatic reactor cores. In that case, by setting [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/generate_core_metadata) as true, control drum meshes can also be used as part of [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/inputs) to construct the core mesh. To facilitate the use of control drum rotation simulation objects, a series of `MeshMetaData` can be generated, including:

- `control_drum_positions`: a vector of control drum center positions. This `MeshMetaData` can also be outputted as an ASCII file by setting [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/generate_control_drum_positions_file) as true and providing [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/position_file);
- `control_drum_angles`: a vector of the azimuthal angles of the control drum center positions to the center of the core.
- `control_drums_azimuthal_meta`: a two-dimensional vector containing the sorted azimuthal angles of nodes to the corresponding control drum center for all the control drums.

In addition, [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/assign_control_drum_id) can be set as true so that the control drum [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/inputs) meshes can be indexed using an element extra integer called `control_drum_id`. As illustrated in [Figure 2](#cd_id), the `control_drum_id` is indexed based on the azimuthal angles of the control drums.

!media reactor/functions/azi_cd_id.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=cd_id
      caption=A schematic drawing the indexing rule of `control_drum_id` in the `PatternedHexMeshGenerator` object.

These `MeshMetaData` as well as `control_drum_id` can be used by other MOOSE objects such as [`MultiControlDrumFunction`](/MultiControlDrumFunction.md) to simulate control drums rotation during power transients.


## Example Syntax

!listing modules/reactor/test/tests/meshgenerators/patterned_hex_mesh_generator/patterned_pattern.i block=Mesh/pattern_1

!syntax parameters /Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator

!syntax inputs /Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator

!syntax children /Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator

Commit message:

Reactor Module Interface Improvements
closes #23367

modules/reactor/doc/content/source/meshgenerators/PatternedHexMeshGenerator.md, after:

# PatternedHexMeshGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator

## Overview

The `PatternedHexMeshGenerator` object generates a 2D mesh by stitching hexagonal meshes generated by [`PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator`](/PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.md), [`HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator`](/HexagonConcentricCircleAdaptiveBoundaryMeshGenerator.md), and itself, based on a user-defined hexagonal grid pattern. The generated 2D mesh can optionally contain an extra background region and/or external duct regions to form a hexagonal external shape rather than a jagged boundary edge.

## Geometry Information

In order to generate the hexagonal patterned mesh, three fundamental parameters are needed:

- [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/inputs): a vector of mesh generator names that will be used as elements to form the patterned mesh;
- [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/pattern): a two-dimensional vector that represents the pattern of mesh to be generated. The elements must be integers from 0 to N-1, where N is the length of vector parameter [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/inputs).
- [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/pattern_boundary): a MooseEnum parameter that can be either `hexagon` or `none`. When `none` is selected, this object only stitches [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/inputs) meshes into a patterned mesh without extraneous geometry, resulting in an outer boundary with a zig-zag edge. When `hexagon` is selected, a background region is added so that the generated mesh has a hexagonal shape instead of a zig-zag one. Concentric duct regions may also be optionally added to the hexagon periphery when this parameter is `hexagon`. The user can refer to [Figure 1](#pattern_hex) for more details.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/pattern_hex.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=pattern_hex
      caption=A schematic showing the difference between `none` and `hexagon` `pattern_boundary`.

When [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/pattern_boundary) is set as `hexagon`, the user can also provide [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/duct_sizes) in either `apothem` or `radius` style to add external duct regions to the generated hexagon mesh. Also, [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/hexagon_size) must also be provided to define the external hexagon boundary size, which can be either `apothem` or `radius` of the hexagon, as determined by [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/hexagon_size_style). In some cases, if [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/hexagon_size) is small enough, the hexagon external boundary may cut off some of the stitched hexagonal meshes. As long as the concentric circular (`rings`) regions are not cut off, the rest of the mesh is deformed to accommodate the limited external boundaries. Users can also set [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/deform_non_circular_region) as `false` to prevent the non-circular regions from being deformed.

## Control Drum Related MeshMetaData

One of the applications of this object is to generate meshes for prismatic reactor cores. In that case, by setting [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/generate_core_metadata) as true, control drum meshes can also be used as part of [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/inputs) to construct the core mesh. To facilitate the use of control drum rotation simulation objects, a series of `MeshMetaData` can be generated, including:

- `control_drum_positions`: a vector of control drum center positions. This `MeshMetaData` can also be outputted as an ASCII file by setting [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/generate_control_drum_positions_file) as true and providing [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/position_file);
- `control_drum_angles`: a vector of the azimuthal angles of the control drum center positions to the center of the core.
- `control_drums_azimuthal_meta`: a two-dimensional vector containing the sorted azimuthal angles of nodes to the corresponding control drum center for all the control drums.

In addition, [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/assign_control_drum_id) can be set as true so that the control drum [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/inputs) meshes can be indexed using an element extra integer called `control_drum_id`. As illustrated in [Figure 2](#cd_id), the `control_drum_id` is indexed based on the azimuthal angles of the control drums.

!media reactor/functions/azi_cd_id.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=cd_id
      caption=A schematic drawing the indexing rule of `control_drum_id` in the `PatternedHexMeshGenerator` object.

These `MeshMetaData` as well as `control_drum_id` can be used by other MOOSE objects such as [`MultiControlDrumFunction`](/MultiControlDrumFunction.md) to simulate control drums rotation during power transients.

## Interface Boundaries

The user can also decide whether the interface boundaries are generated or not in the peripheral region. There are two types of interface boundaries, "inward interface boundaries" and "outward interface boundaries". The "inward" and "outward" here refer to the direction of the boundary's normal vector. As a sideset must be defined on the sides of elements, which belong to one or multiple subdomains, an interface boundary can be defined either on the subdomain immediately inside the interface (i.e., with an "outward" normal vector) or on the subdomain immediately outside the interface (i.e., with an "inward" normal factor). The user can set [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/create_inward_interface_boundaries) and [!param](/Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator/create_outward_interface_boundaries) to control which interface boundaries will be created.

## Example Syntax

!listing modules/reactor/test/tests/meshgenerators/patterned_hex_mesh_generator/patterned_pattern.i block=Mesh/pattern_1

!syntax parameters /Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator

!syntax inputs /Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator

!syntax children /Mesh/PatternedHexMeshGenerator
