# PeripheralTriangleMeshGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/PeripheralTriangleMeshGenerator

## Overview

The `PeripheralTriangleMeshGenerator` utilizes the general purpose [`XYDelaunayGenerator`](XYDelaunayGenerator.md) triangulation mesh generator and the [`PolyLineMeshGenerator`](PolyLineMeshGenerator.md) to create a circural periphery region around a reactor core. The outer circle properties are specified with the [!param](/Mesh/PeripheralTriangleMeshGenerator/peripheral_ring_radius) and [!param](/Mesh/PeripheralTriangleMeshGenerator/peripheral_ring_num_segments) input parameters.

Optionally, triangle refinement parameters can be used to improve the quality of the triangles in the periphery region. These are specified with either [!param](/Mesh/PeripheralTriangleMeshGenerator/desired_area), which specifies a single desired maximum triangle area, and [!param](/Mesh/PeripheralTriangleMeshGenerator/desired_area_func), which specifies the desired maximum triangle area as a function of x,y. input parameters. See the full documentation for [`XYDelaunayGenerator`](XYDelaunayGenerator.md) for more details on the area refinement options.

[Figure 1](#triangle_simple) shows an example triangulation around an existing core mesh.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/ptmg_abtr.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:60%;
      id=triangle_simple
      caption=An example triangulation generated by this `PeripheralTriangleMeshGenerator` object around an existing core mesh.

During triangulation, the triangulation library used by [`XYDelaunayGenerator`](XYDelaunayGenerator.md) will by default use only the points given in the outer boundary polyline and the points on the outer boundary of the core regions, which can result in lower quality triangles and lead to difficulty when using the triangulation in FEM calculations. The triangle refinement options described above can be used to help improve the quality of the triangulation. [Figure 2](#triangle_refinement) shows an example triangulation with area refinement added to improve triangle quality.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/ptmg_abtr_refinement.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:60%;
      id=triangle_refinement
      caption=An example triangulation generated by this `PeripheralTriangleMeshGenerator` object using optional triangle refinement to improve triangle quality.

## Example Syntax

!listing modules/reactor/test/tests/meshgenerators/peripheral_triangle_mesh_generator/abtr_tri.i block=Mesh/tmg

!syntax parameters /Mesh/PeripheralTriangleMeshGenerator

!syntax inputs /Mesh/PeripheralTriangleMeshGenerator

!syntax children /Mesh/PeripheralTriangleMeshGenerator
