modules/reactor/doc/content/source/meshgenerators/SimpleHexagonGenerator.md, before:

# SimpleHexagonGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/SimpleHexagonGenerator

## Overview

This is a simple version of [PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator](/PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.md). By default ([!param](/Mesh/SimpleHexagonGenerator/element_type) as `TRI`), this mesh generator creates a hexagon mesh with `num_sectors_per_side` = {1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1} (see [Figure 1](#simple_hex)). The mesh also has only one single layer of background region. Namely, the hexagon mesh generated by `SimpleHexagonGenerator` only contains six triangular elements. Optionally, the users can also generate an even simpler hexagon mesh that contains only two quadrilateral elements by setting [!param](/Mesh/SimpleHexagonGenerator/element_type) as `QUAD` (see [Figure 2](#simple_hex_quad)). Additionally, this mesh generator also creates the same `MeshMetaData` as `PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator` does so that the produced mesh can be used by [PatternedHexMeshGenerator](/PatternedHexMeshGenerator.md) as inputs.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/simple_hex.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=simple_hex
      caption=A schematic drawing showing a typical simple hexagonal mesh generated by this `SimpleHexagonGenerator` object with [!param](/Mesh/SimpleHexagonGenerator/element_type) as `TRI`.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/simple_hex_quad.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=simple_hex_quad
      caption=A schematic drawing showing a typical simple hexagonal mesh generated by this `SimpleHexagonGenerator` object with [!param](/Mesh/SimpleHexagonGenerator/element_type) as `QUAD`.

## Example Syntax

!listing modules/reactor/test/tests/meshgenerators/simple_hexagon_generator/sim_hex.i block=Mesh/shg

!syntax parameters /Mesh/SimpleHexagonGenerator

!syntax inputs /Mesh/SimpleHexagonGenerator

!syntax children /Mesh/SimpleHexagonGenerator

Commit message:

SimpleHexMG with Hybrid option
closes #23369

modules/reactor/doc/content/source/meshgenerators/SimpleHexagonGenerator.md, after:

# SimpleHexagonGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/SimpleHexagonGenerator

## Overview

SimpleHexagonGenerator is a simple version of [PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator](/PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator.md). This mesh generator meshes a simple hexagon with no pin. This mesh generator is commonly used to mesh homogenized pins or assemblies with either 6 triangular elements (default option, [!param](/Mesh/SimpleHexagonGenerator/element_type) as `TRI`) or 2 quadrilateral elements ([!param](/Mesh/SimpleHexagonGenerator/element_type) as `QUAD`, see [simple_hex_quad]). No additional azimuthal or radial discretizations are permitted with these two options.

A third option is available to introduce additional radial layers in the form of concentric hexagonal zones using [!param](/Mesh/SimpleHexagonGenerator/element_type) as `HYBRID`. In that case, the azimuthal discretization is identical to the TRI case (`num_sectors_per_side` = {1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1}) but the mesh can now have multiple radial layers of elements (i.e. triangular elements in the center and quadrilateral elements in the outer layers as shown in [simple_hex_hybrid]). The number of layers is specified by [!param](/Mesh/SimpleHexagonGenerator/radial_intervals). It is important to note that this option creates two separate subdomains (one TRI, one QUAD), and requires two separate subdomain IDs rather than one.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/simple_hex.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=simple_hex
      caption=A schematic drawing showing a typical simple hexagonal mesh generated by this `SimpleHexagonGenerator` object with [!param](/Mesh/SimpleHexagonGenerator/element_type) as `TRI`.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/simple_hex_quad.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=simple_hex_quad
      caption=A hexagonal mesh generated by `SimpleHexagonGenerator` with [!param](/Mesh/SimpleHexagonGenerator/element_type) as `QUAD`.

!media reactor/meshgenerators/simple_hex_hybrid.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:40%;
      id=simple_hex_hybrid
      caption=A hexagonal mesh generated by `SimpleHexagonGenerator` with [!param](/Mesh/SimpleHexagonGenerator/element_type) as `HYBRID` (note the additional radial discretizations).

This mesh generator creates the same `MeshMetaData` as `PolygonConcentricCircleMeshGenerator`. The produced mesh can be used as inputs to [PatternedHexMeshGenerator](/PatternedHexMeshGenerator.md).

## Example Syntax

!listing modules/reactor/test/tests/meshgenerators/simple_hexagon_generator/sim_hex.i block=Mesh/shg

!syntax parameters /Mesh/SimpleHexagonGenerator

!syntax inputs /Mesh/SimpleHexagonGenerator

!syntax children /Mesh/SimpleHexagonGenerator
