# TriangulatedMeshGenerator

!syntax description /Mesh/TriangulatedMeshGenerator

## Overview

The `TriangulatedMeshGenerator` was created to connect the functionality of the [poly2tri](https://github.com/jhasse/poly2tri) 2D triangulation library to the MOOSE mesh generation system. Since the motivation of this effort was to mesh the region between a reactor fuel core and the core periphery (typically a cylinder), it was designed to create a circular triangulation outer boundary and use the outer boundary of an existing meshgenerator to define the boundary of a single hole region which the triangulation library will exclude. The outer circle properties are specified with the [!param](/Mesh/TriangulatedMeshGenerator/outer_circle_radius) and [!param](/Mesh/TriangulatedMeshGenerator/outer_circle_num_segments) input parameters.

Optionally, additional circle radius/segment definitions between the core region and the outer boundary can be provided to the library to be used as Steiner points to help improve the quality of the triangles produced. These are specified similar to the primary outer boundary as a vector or radii and segments counts with the [!param](/Mesh/TriangulatedMeshGenerator/extra_circle_radii) and [!param](/Mesh/TriangulatedMeshGenerator/extra_circle_num_segments) input parameters.

[Figure 1](#triangle_simple) shows an example triangulation around an existing core mesh.

!media media/meshgenerators/triangle_abtr.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:60%;
      id=triangle_simple
      caption=An example triangulation generated by this `TriangulatedMeshGenerator` object around an existing core mesh.

During triangulation, the library will by default use only the points given in the outer boundary polyline and any hole boundary polylines to perform the triangulation, which can result in lower quality triangles and lead to difficulty when using the triangulation in FEM calculations. The library thus also allows for the input of any number of Steiner points, which are extra triangulation points that can be used to help improve the quality of the triangulation. [Figure 2](#triangle_steiner) shows an example triangulation with a ring of Steiner points added to improve triangle quality.

!media media/meshgenerators/triangle_abtr_steiner.png
      style=display: block;margin-left:auto;margin-right:auto;width:60%;
      id=triangle_steiner
      caption=An example triangulation generated by this `TriangulatedMeshGenerator` object using optional Steiner point rings to improve triangle quality.

## Example Syntax

!listing modules/reactor/test/tests/meshgenerators/triangulated_mesh_generator/abtr_tri.i block=Mesh/tmg

!syntax parameters /Mesh/TriangulatedMeshGenerator

!syntax inputs /Mesh/TriangulatedMeshGenerator

!syntax children /Mesh/TriangulatedMeshGenerator
