# LAROMANCE6DInterpolation

!alert note
This is a custom [NEML2](solid_mechanics/NEML2.md) object for solid_mechanics. To enable it, configure MOOSE with libtorch and initialize the [NEML2 submodule](https://github.com/applied-material-modeling/neml2).

The documentation is for a NEML2 [!citep](neml2osti, neml2_anl_report) implementation of the LAROMance surrogate model.  The LAROMance surrogate model computes the inelastic effective strain rate used in an isotropic viscoplastic constitutive model update [!cite](tallman-2020).  The LAROMance surrogate model is fit to a database of polycrystalline crystal plasticity simulations.  The material's microstructure, as described by the distribution of dislocation content, temperature, stress, and and environment factor (precipitate phase fraction, neutron fluence, etc. ), varied in the crystal plasticity creep simulations used to create the database.  The inelastic strain history and mobile and immobile dislocation evolution from the crystal plasticity simulations are then fit to an element-based LAROMance model [!citep](ruybalid_osti24, munday_osti25). The element-based input space provides an interpolation grid for the output state of the material.  This version of the LAROMance model uses piecewise-continuous linear functions to interpolate the input grid.  The six-dimensional (6D) input space for the LAROMance model, $f\left(T,\epsilon_{p},\sigma_{vm},\rho_c,\rho_w,\Phi_{mx}\right)$, corresponds to the variables varied in the LApx simulations---that is, temperature ($T$ in units K), von Mises stress ($\sigma_{vm}$ in units MPa), accumulated effective inelastic strain ($\epsilon_{p}$), mobile or cell dislocation density ($\rho_c$ in units $m^{-2}$), immobile or wall dislocation density ($\rho_w$ in units $m^{-2}$), and environmental factor ($\Phi_{mx}$ in units of number density; $count/m^{-3}$).  Interpolated outputs from the LAROMance model are inelastic effective strain rate ($\dot{\epsilon}_{p}$), and mobile and immobile dislocation density evolution rates ( $\dot{\rho}_c$ and  $\dot{\rho}_w$ ).  Transforms are applied to the input grid and output state to normalize the interpolation space, apply constraints on the output, and allow linear regression to fit a nonlinear relationship between inputs and outputs such as the logarithmic evolution of dislocation density due to accumulated effective inelastic strain [!cite](tallman-2020).  Additional information about the LAROMance models and a previous implementation is avaiable [here](/LAROMANCE.md).

The LAROMance model implementation in NEML2 is based on multilinear interpolation on a regular nonuniform grid.  The six dimensional interpolation grid contains $\left(T,\epsilon_{p},\sigma_{vm},\rho_c,\rho_w,\Phi_{mx}\right)$, nodal output values $\left(\dot{\epsilon}_{p},\dot{\rho}_c,\dot{\rho}_w\right)$, and transforms are contained in the JSON database file.  Extrapolation is performed for $\left(T,\epsilon_{p},\sigma_{vm},\rho_c,\rho_w,\Phi_{mx}\right)$ outside the grid domain.  See report for verification and additional details [!cite](munday_osti25).

Additional information about previous LAROMANCE version are documented in [the LAROMANCE documentation](/LAROMANCE.md).

!listing test/tests/neml2/laromance/models/laromance_matl_radial_return.i block=Models/rom_ep

!bibtex bibliography
