Axisymmetric (cylindrical) materials are included in Tensor Mechanics for revolved geometries and
assume symmetrical loading. These 'strain calculator' materials compute the strain within the
appropriate coordinate system and rely on specialized AxisymmetricRZ kernels to handle the stress
divergence.

!alert warning title=Symmetry Assumed About the $z$-axis
The axis of symmetry must lie along the $z$-axis in a $\left(r, z, \theta \right)$
or cylindrical coordinate system. This symmetry orientation is required for the
calculation of the residual and of the jacobian.
See [StressDivergenceRZTensors](/StressDivergenceRZTensors.md) for the
residual equation and the germane discussion.

 The ```AxisymmetricRZ``` material is appropriate for a 2D simulation and assumes symmetry
revolved about the z-axis. A 2D formulation of an appropriate simulation problem
can reduce the simulation run time while preserving key physics. Axisymmetric simulations are
appropriate to problems in which a solid is generated by
[revolving a planar area about an axis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Axial_symmetry) in the same
plane.

!alert note title=Use RZ Coordinate Type
The coordinate type in the Problem block of the input file must be set to
+`COORD_TYPE = RZ`+.

## Axisymmetric Strain Formulation

The axisymmetric model employs the cylindrical coordinates, $r$, $z$, and $\theta$, where the planar
cross section formed by the $r$ and $z$ axes is rotated about the axial $z$ axis, along the length of
the cylinder, in the $\theta$ direction.  The cylindrical coordinate system strain tensor for
axisymmetric problems has the form

\begin{equation}
\begin{bmatrix}
\epsilon_{rr} & \epsilon_{rz} & 0 \\
\epsilon_{zr} & \epsilon_{zz} & 0 \\
0 & 0 & \epsilon_{\theta \theta}
\end{bmatrix}
\end{equation}
where the value of the strain $\epsilon_{\theta \theta}$ depends on the displacement and position in the radial direction
\begin{equation}
\epsilon_{\theta \theta} = \frac{u_r}{X_r}.
\end{equation}

Although axisymmetric problems solve for 3D stress and strain fields, the problem is mathematically
2D. Using an appropriate set of geometry and boundary conditions, these types of problems have strain
and stress fields which are not functions of the out of plane coordinate variable.  In the
cylindrical coordinate axisymmetric system, the values of stress and strain in the $\theta$ direction
do not depend on the $\theta$ coordinate.

!alert note title=Notation Order Change
The axisymmetric system changes the order of the displacement vector from $(u_r, u_{\theta}, u_z)$,
usually seen in textbooks, to $(u_r, u_z, u_{\theta})$. Take care to follow this convention in your
input files and when adding eigenstrains or extra stresses.
