# MOOSE Newsletter (October 2019)

## Collaborative Computing Center

We move to our new location in early October, the Collaborative Computing Center (C3). The location
includes open workspace for the software teams, meeting rooms, and lots of room for collaboration.
There will also be a new supercomputer being installed at the end of the year with approximately
100,000 cores. All of the changes will help INL continue to grow as a leader in computational
software and hardware.

!gallery! large=6
!card news/C3_front.jpg title=Collaborative Computing Center (C3)

!card news/C3_atrium.jpg title=The atrium includes collaboration areas and a view of the Snake River.

!card news/C3_conf.jpg title=Conference room for future MOOSE workshops.

!card news/C3_pod.jpg title=The MOOSE pod.
!gallery-end!



## Google Search

Our main website was updated to include a gallery of examples as well as a Google based search,
which will provide better search results for our users.


## ExplicitSSPRungeKutta Time Integrator

The time integrator `ExplicitSSPRungeKutta` was created, which implements
strong-stability-preserving (SSP) Runge-Kutta methods of orders 1, 2, and 3.
This time integrator was modeled in the fashion of `ActuallyExplicitEuler`,
i.e., it bypasses the nonlinear solver, gives options for mass matrix
computation and inversion, and does not require the user to modify the
`implicit` parameter of residual objects.

## Mesh Generator Enhancements

The mesh generator system now throws an error if there are ambiguous end points for the mesh generation tree.
Additionally a new parameter, "final_generator" was added to disambiguate mesh generation trees or to simply
terminate the mesh generator execution stack early.

## New Compiler Support

MOOSE now supports GCC 9.2 and Clang 9.0 compilers

## Framework level ReferenceResidualProblem

The `ReferenceResidualProblem` object now resides in the framework as opposed to
the Contact module, so it can be easily used in all MOOSE applications. Moreover,
the preferred method for using `ReferenceResidualProblem` has changed. Instead
of using `save_in` variables, the tagging system is employed. An example of using
the new `ReferenceResidualProblem` setup can be found in the blocks:

!listing test/tests/problems/reference_residual_problem/reference_residual.i block=Problem BCs

`ReferenceResidualProblem` is an excellent choice for changing MOOSE's default
convergence criteria. It is useful for:

- Ensuring that variables with different residual scales are individually converged
- Asserting convergence in cases where the simulation is nearly a steady-state, e.g. if
  the initial residual is small the solver may not have to crank the residual down to
  a numerically infeasible level

`ReferenceResidualProblem` can be used in conjunction with automatic scaling to tackle
different scales of residuals and Jacobians respectively, with the former ensuring
individual convergence of variables and the latter ensuring a well-conditioned matrix.

## Bug Fixes

- Quadrature Point index properly initialized in NodalBC object so that less commonly used public APIs work properly
- Sidesets properly preserved in MeshGeneratorExtruder object
