# MeshGeneratorComponent

The `MeshGeneratorComponent` is a geometrical component which lives on the mesh output by a mesh generator.
The component's block restriction is set to the blocks of mesh generated by this mesh generator.

## Using saved meshes

When using the 'saved_mesh' option for the [!param](/ActionComponents/MeshGeneratorComponent/mesh_generator_type) parameter,

- the final mesh generator should be specified in the `[Mesh]` block, as explained in [this paragraph](syntax/Mesh/index.md#final)
- the mesh used by a `MeshGeneratorComponent` should be a saved mesh, using the [!param](/Mesh/CartesianMeshGenerator/save_with_name) parameter of mesh generators
- the mesh used should *likely* not be present in the `[Mesh]` block final mesh, as they would overlap with the `MeshGeneratorComponent` mesh.
  The saved mesh is added to the final mesh.
- the blocks on the saved mesh must have different block IDs and names from the other parts of the simulation
  mesh, as the spatial definition of the component is based on the saved mesh's blocks.
  We strongly recommend using a prefix to distinguish the component's blocks' names. A [RenameBlockGenerator.md]
  can be used for that purpose.

## Using the final mesh generator

When using the 'final_generator' option for the [!param](/ActionComponents/MeshGeneratorComponent/mesh_generator_type) parameter,
the mesh will not be duplicated; the final mesh from the [Mesh](syntax/Mesh/index.md) block will be used.

!syntax parameters /ActionComponents/MeshGeneratorComponent

!syntax inputs /ActionComponents/MeshGeneratorComponent

!syntax children /ActionComponents/MeshGeneratorComponent
