modules/thermal_hydraulics/doc/content/source/components/HeatTransferFromExternalAppTemperature1Phase.md, before:

# HeatTransferFromExternalAppTemperature1Phase

!alert construction title=Undocumented Class
The HeatTransferFromExternalAppTemperature1Phase has not been documented. The content listed below should be used as a starting point for
documenting the class, which includes the typical automatic documentation associated with a
MooseObject; however, what is contained is ultimately determined by what is necessary to make the
documentation clear for users.

!syntax description /Components/HeatTransferFromExternalAppTemperature1Phase

## Overview

!! Replace these lines with information regarding the HeatTransferFromExternalAppTemperature1Phase object.

## Example Input File Syntax

!! Describe and include an example of how to use the HeatTransferFromExternalAppTemperature1Phase object.

!syntax parameters /Components/HeatTransferFromExternalAppTemperature1Phase

!syntax inputs /Components/HeatTransferFromExternalAppTemperature1Phase

!syntax children /Components/HeatTransferFromExternalAppTemperature1Phase

Commit message:

Add missing documentation to the last few THM components missing docs refs #19737

modules/thermal_hydraulics/doc/content/source/components/HeatTransferFromExternalAppTemperature1Phase.md, after:

# HeatTransferFromExternalAppTemperature1Phase

!syntax description /Components/HeatTransferFromExternalAppTemperature1Phase

This component is a [single-phase heat transfer component](thermal_hydraulics/component_groups/heat_transfer_1phase.md).

It adds a [ADOneDEnergyWallHeating.md] kernel to the energy equation.
The wall temperature is added as either a constant monomial or a linear Lagrange variable, depending
on the [!param](/Components/HeatTransferFromExternalAppTemperature1Phase/var_type) parameter.
It is named after the [!param](/Components/HeatTransferFromExternalAppTemperature1Phase/T_ext) parameter.
This variable should be set using transferred data from an external application.

## Formulation

Please refer to [ADOneDEnergyWallHeating.md] for the heat flux formulation.

!syntax parameters /Components/HeatTransferFromExternalAppTemperature1Phase

!syntax inputs /Components/HeatTransferFromExternalAppTemperature1Phase

!syntax children /Components/HeatTransferFromExternalAppTemperature1Phase
