# PLN-4005

## Software Quality Assurance Plan (SQAP) for MOOSE and MOOSE-based Applications

!---

## PLN-4005: Purpose

- Static document created to detail the process and the rigor required for development of MOOSE and
  MOOSE-based applications to meet the NQA-1 standard using [!ac](INL) templates and procedures.
- +Required+ reading associated with this training.

!---

## PLN-4005: Assumptions

- MOOSE and MOOSE-based applications are designated as Quality Level 2 (QL-2) non-safety software
  but are managed following processes that implement Quality Level 1 (QL-1) safety software.
- We follow the most stringent processes; however, we do not provide "safety software." Users are
  responsible for following their organization's processes if MOOSE or a MOOSE-based
  application is used to perform a safety function.

!---

## PLN-4005: Roles

- +Line Manager+: Manages the overall project ensuring that work scope is defined and adequate
  resources exist (time, talent, funding, etc.).
- +Project Lead+: Manages day-to-day development of the code to ensure that work is being performed
  as defined by the Line Manager, and performs software releases.
- +Software Quality Assurance Lead+: Manages [!ac](SQA) processes and ensures that PLN-4005 is
  being implemented.
- +Change Control Board (CCB)+: Perform reviews of Change Requests (CRs) to ensure that code
  changes are necessary and that testing and documentation conforms to PLN-4005.

!---

## PLN-4005: Documentation

Three classes of documentation are defined for MOOSE and MOOSE-based applications:

- static
- repository
- development

!---

### PLN-4005: Static Documentation

- +Software Quality Assurance Plan (SQAP; PLN-4005)+: Defines [!ac](SQA)
  processes implemented including Configuration Management Plan (CMP) and Verification
  and Validation Plan (VVP).
- +Safety-software Determination (SSD)+: [!ac](INL) tool that asks a series of questions to determine
  and document if the software application meets the DOE definition of Safety Software.
- +Quality-level Determination (QLD)+: [!ac](INL) tool that asks a series of questions to determine
  and document the quality level of the software application. The quality level is used to apply a
  graded approach and the rigor with which the software is developed and managed.
- +[!ac](EA) Entry+: [!ac](INL) tool that maintains an inventory of all INL software applications and
  their associated attributes. These attributes include software application name and version,
  description, technical point of contact, the associated SSD and QLD, and the software management
  plans that are in place to manage the software application.

!---

### PLN-4005: Static Documentation

!alert note
The SDD, QLD, and EA Entry are the only [!ac](INL) level documents stored outside of the repository
that are necessary for satisfying the NQA-1 standard, and they are created when the [!ac](SQA)
process begins.

!!Comment to add some space between alerts

!alert note
The VVP is referring to verification and validation of the NQA-1 process, not the science.


!---

### PLN-4005: Repository Documentation

Defined as all documentation stored in the repository, the following [!ac](SQA) specific documents must be
included to conform to PLN-4005.

- Software requirements specifications (SRS)
- Software design descriptions (SDD)
- Requirements traceability matrix (RTM)
- Software test plan (STP)
- Failure-analysis report (FAR)
- Communication and contact information (CCI)
- Software coding standards (SCS)

!---

### PLN-4005: Development Documentation

The following records shall be maintained to document the change control process leading
to a release:

- Change Requests (Pull/Merge Requests)
- Issues (GitHub/GitLab)
- Test results (CIVET)
- Release logs (create as part of release)

!---

## PLN-4005: Reviews

- +Static Documentation Review+: Changes to the static documentation follow the review procedure
  native to the INL system (SQA Lead will handle these).

- +Design Verification Review+: "A review shall be conducted by an independent reviewer. The reviewer
  may rely on assistance from any individual, but the final approval or disapproval is the sole
  responsibility of the independent reviewer. All comments are retained in the GitHub/GitLab system."

- +Release Review+: A release requires an additional release review to ensure compliance with the
  approved software requirements. Test results from CIVET are considered part of the review.

!---

## PLN-4005: Software Configuration Management

- Static Documentation is managed using [!ac](INL) tools.

- Items included in the repository are uniquely identifiable for all revisions or releases by the
  inherent capabilities of the version control system.

!---

## PLN-4005: Software Acquisition

[!ac](INL)'s procedure for acquiring hardware and software resources (LWP-1305) has been modified to
specifically exclude zero dollar open-source software from the requirement to submit an iBuy request
for acquisition. This means that libraries like PETSc can be acquired, accepted and maintained as git
submodules, and follow the normal change control process.

!---

## PLN-4005: Software Engineering Method

There is little restriction on how code shall be developed; the independent reviewer will be the
gate-keeper regarding the specifics of the implementation for each change.

Every registered `MooseObject` requires a "design" page to describe the use
of the object, and every test case must:

1. Define the requirement that the test satisfies
1. Reference one or more design documents
1. Reference at least one of the following:

   - An issue that motivated the test case
   - The CR that implemented the test case
   - The revision when it was created

!---

## PLN-4005: Software Test Execution

Five steps must exist between a change request and a release.

1. +Change Request Testing+: Pull/Merge Request testing
1. +Code Review+: Independent review of changes by [!ac](CCB) member
1. +Development Branch Testing+: Ensure the changes work together
1. +Documentation+: Build current website/documentation
1. +Release+: Final review and release by Project Lead (covered in INL course 0INL1862)

!---

## PLN-4005: Standards, Practices, Conventions, and Metrics

MOOSE and MOOSE-based applications must follow a coding standard that is defined in the
Software Coding Standard (SCS) document.

> Software development of MOOSE and MOOSE-based applications relies on an continuous agile integration
> process using test-driven development through pull/merge requests...

!---

## PLN-4005: Support Software

- +GitHub/GitLab+: repository service, change requests, and issue tracking.
- +System Software+: identified by the project lead, documented within the test results, and is
  associated with a release (e.g., operating system, compiler).
- +Software tools+: [!ac](CIVET) and [!ac](MOOSE) testing and documentation systems.

!---

## PLN-4005: Records Collection, Maintenance, and Retention

> Quality records identified in Section 5 will be held within the GitHub/GitLab record-keeping system
> and EDMS as specified. All records of MOOSE and MOOSE-based applications are managed per
> PLN-4653.

!---

## PLN-4005: Training

+Line Manager+: 0INL1631, Read PLN-4005, RDHERD01

+Project and SQA Lead+: OINL1631, QNSQASSQ Qualification, Read PLN-4005, RDHERD01, 0INL1862

+[!ac](CCB)+: 0INL1631, QNSQASSQ Qualification, Read PLN-4005, RDHERD01
