# Executioner

The Executioner controls the "execution" behavior of the simulation. MOOSE includes several Executioners but
most simulations will use the [Transient.md] Executioner, which is for simulating that is based on a PDE that
has a time dependence (changes over time).

## Grid Sequencing

Grid sequencing is a method particularly suited for nonlinear problems. It seeks
to create an initial guess that is significantly close to the solution that
Newton's method starts in or quickly enters the quadratic basin of
convergence. The initial guess is generated by solving the finite element problem
on one or a series of coarse grids and then prolonging the coarse grid solution
to form the initial guess for the final fine grid. Grid sequencing can be
conducted by simply specifying `num_grids = n` where `n` is the desired
number of grids to perform the nonlinear solve on. In particular if `num_grids = 2`, there would be one
coarse grid solve and then a fine grid solve, with the "fine grid" having one
level of uniform refinement relative to the coarse grid. Note that in order to
use grid sequencing, the initial mesh should correspond to the coarsest level of
mesh desired because adaptivity in libMesh is incapable of coarsening a mesh
beyond that initially provided by the user.

## Attribute Reporting

The Executioner has a shortcut method that can be used to add an attribute reporting mechanism to the simulation.
The Executioner accomplishes this by adding a special [Postprocessor.md] to the simulation that will report
a potentially changing scalar value over time.
