# SobolReporter

!syntax description /Reporters/SobolReporter

## Overview

This object computes the Sobol sensitivity indices following the procedure defined by
[!cite](saltelli2002making). This includes the first-order and total-effect indices and optionally
the second-order indices as well. The SobolReporter object only operates on result data
generated from Sobol-based sampling strategy, which is provided by the [SobolSampler.md].

## Example Input File Syntax

The following input snippet uses the GFunction test object, which is defined as:

!equation
g(x_1, x_2, \ldots, x_n) = \prod_{i=1}^n\frac{|4x_i-2|+q_i}{1+q_i},

where $\vec{q}$ is defined in the input file, $x$ is the vector of model data, and $n$ is the number
of input variables. The $x$ data is generated by the Sobol sampler object.

### Sobol Statistics on VectorPostprocessor Data

The following shows the computation of sobol indices on data generated from a VectorPostprocessor.
With the [JSONOutput.md] output object, the resulting computation is outputted to a JSON file.

!listing reporters/sobol/sobol.i block=Samplers VectorPostprocessors Reporters Outputs

The resulting JSON output includes general information about the data, including how many parameters
were observed and the indices being computed. This example includes `FIRST_ORDER`,
`SECOND_ORDER`, and `TOTAL` indices. Following the reporter information, the values are shown
as a pair of each set of indices and the associated confidence intervals (if requested).
`FIRST_ORDER` and `TOTAL` indices are vectors with each element corresponding to a parameter.
The `SECOND_ORDER` indices are represented by a matrix, where the row and column correspond to
the parameter correlations.

!listing reporters/sobol/gold/sobol_out.json

### Sobol Statstics on Reporter Data

Along with VectorPostprocessor data, the SobolReporter can compute indices on reporter data,
which includes vector-type quantities of interest. Below shows the syntax required for
reporter data.

!listing reporters/sobol/sobol_main.i block=Reporters

!syntax parameters /Reporters/SobolReporter

!syntax inputs /Reporters/SobolReporter

!syntax children /Reporters/SobolReporter
